on CAD because I want to I built this
already look how cool this
is so cool I'm a cool kid with a CAD
software but I realized I don't think I
actually did this right I was just
extrud I was just making pads on like
random surfaces and I don't think it's
like the most principal way to do
it so we're going to go through this and
some tutorials
um so I already did some of this but I'm
going to try to copy this from what I
learned so we're going to do
new okay and then we
um yeah we part
design now we want to make
a yeah create a body create a
sketch do this on the XY
plane okay then we want to make a
rectangle and I think we want to do
this this
thing wait what the
[__]
okay okay and
then
um I don't know how how big did he make
this
thing which is a l I'm going to say
about
100m I'm
scr the
vertical
points
this
thing see I don't get that why does it
even let you do
that okay so now this is fully
constraint so we're
good okay now we want to make a pad
is this
guy
see that to look at is the a cross so
got to view to cross you see we if I add
some angle to this we've got our axis
cross see here and this is the point of
origin where we started this from so
this is the sketch if we moved geometry
over then our body will be starting here
so the first sketch determines where the
point of rotation is going to be that's
close this and get back to our modeling
now we've got the sketch it's fully
constrained and it's known as a closed
sketch so we can pad closed sketch in
the part design so padding means
Extrusion so we ex this up using pad
command now if we look on the tool we
can see a number of different colored
icons so we've got red ones here red and
blue and then we've got yellow ones here
yellows are additive red are subtractive
so we adding material like ative if we
remove material away from this like a
pocket they're
subtractive let's pad this sketch I can
see SED makes a
pad and then the holes were the thing
that are new to me I I understood the
pad thing we made it 5 mm all right so
to edit that I think we just go in here
and change this to
five okay now we're going to click on
this then we're going to make a sketch
on here okay then we want to do this
circle
thing okay
now um
want to do
this that's
right anyways so now we want to do
I here
here
then
L okay then what are the other guys the
other guys are
V and
H
so do do
v v
oh uh right right right we want to do
this okay now these guys are aligned but
then the other thing we want to
do is we want to
apply
[Music]
um the
equals okay cool then we want to just do
the
H's
H H then we want to do I boop boop 10
L
boop boop 10 Okay cool so now we have oh
and we didn't do the wait we didn't do
the
radius
[__]
um how do I constrain the
radius uh k
oh oh and this
a oh
nice the [__] is going on
here what KO
10 oh wait I think I I think I know
what's going
on no I don't know what's going on hello
hello are you
[Music]
home anybody [__] in
there I think it's cuz I probably
have that in
there it doesn't overwrite it which is
kind of annoying but anyway so now we
have the right thing
[Music]
um okay then the next part was okay so
that's all
good we just need to make them holes so
we can
select this and the subtractive
thing right I don't know how we got
there a
hole pocket where's the pocket how did
he get that pocket
thing part
design bro must be older
version create a subtractive feature
it's got to be this
right
what where the [__] is
pocket
oh does that link Oh I thought that was
going to link to in my to perform an
action in here that would be sweet is
there no way to go
back oh there is a back button oh great
that's really helpful
guys oh this is pocket
okay and then you want to go
to two
first okay no face selected great but
you want to select this no wait I'm a
dumbass
select oh you got to select this face
maybe I don't know pocket that bit oh
yeah okay wait let's figure out what's
actually going on so I select this then
I select this then I do pocket it works
so I don't know what I did wrong but
then we want to do this to
first okay all right nice now we want to
select this again make a new sketch
right then we want to do GX then we want
to tap this guy this guy then we want to
make a re
tangle go oh [__] not I guess it
remembers the last uh last one you did
which kind of makes
sense okay it's
snapped
okay
so what happens now is
um this let's see hold
on this Dimension is constraint
right it's just this one and this
one it's not and then I don't remember
what he did here but it was a
symmetric
okay so I guess I select the two points
then the middle one let's
see
okay then I just
delete okay cool and I'm fully
constrained I'm a
baller and now we make that b a pad
[__] make that b a i see a b see
a b
b I think he made a 30 maybe he made it
50 on a
homie okay so hit close and use the pad
again is asking us for the L 5m for L5 I
made it 30 the shape of our model but we
need to finish let's compare this with
our model moment so we've done now need
to add the and this is a finishing
feature so this is thing you should use
last of all you should Place GE on top
of this because this is used as a way of
making the object look more simply cing
and also to clean up any sharp edges to
save from
injury we're going to bring this around
and look at the edges so the first one
I'm going to do is this one here we're
going to do curvature that cleans up
this Edge to do that I'm going to select
the edges so this Edge that runs across
here and this Edge that runs across
[Music]
here what you mean do
a add this
thought I could
add
whoa oh you know what I did I probably
wasn't holding
control and
then I wonder if there's
a wonder if there's a way to easily cuz
selection is something that definitely
you could do with AI you know select the
the you give it an object and then it
just generates the query for that seems
pretty easy so here we F that [__] again
make it five maybe fit I don't
know wait what
happened it didn't do
it oh because I selected that vertex not
the
line
oh [__] I wasn't holding down
control all right whatever let's do
fet
10 I want to rotate it around this part
okay there we
go then if I select that does that add
it I want to add it how do I add
it
all I have to do a control
okay
nice this kind of fun
stuff all right what else did he have he
had so I don't know how to how to do
that so we'll have to keep watching
cuz actually is it literally that simple
no see there's no wait is there oh I
thought I saw a highlight yeah okay wait
so let's zoom in here there's this thing
what happens if you just press fet on it
yeah
nice and then we just want to control
click
on this [__] guy yeah wait hold
on how do you add it
dude
select oh okay you don't hold
control all right then we going to make
this
[__] no we're going to make it
three cool all right I think the part is
done and come
to Dr feature and app a fillet this
curves these edges off now if we come
down to the left hand side we can see
we've got the edges and the radius and
we can increase this and see what
happens on the right hand side you can
see it disappeared and this is going
into error so I okay now you can see we
got fail to create FP and we got report
view that's po up now we can turn that
off we're going to the edit preferences
output window and you see I've got show
report view on warnings unchecked and
show report view on error let's uncheck
that and
okay that one and hit okay see come F to
create f it which is absolutely fine
we've got no report for you showing
let's bring this F down
and then
last time and adjust this so let's add
the last fill so I'm click on this line
inside and add the
filler and we increase F to about 5 MIM
let's add another one on the other side
click add click the edge and hit
okay
we've now completed the
build you can see we've got P inside
that we have a sketch and this is the
sketch go but I just press a space there
just to show where that sketch is and to
show it on the screen press the space
bar on the pocket and come into the
sketch and press space bar on that so
you can see the sketch in wh around
those holes same for this
pad sketch pad
there
[Music]
okay
fine
I don't know where it registered
it
all
right I might have read the path
[Music]
old um
okay
three dude I want to get good at
CAD oh we just lost it should I speedrun
it
again I found this sick project called
the LMN
3 this thing is so cool it's like an
op1 but they have
all the software all the electronics and
all
the cad it's so fully open source it's
crazy I kind of want to build one it's a
two- layer board so the thing is the
routing
is the routing is really thin and
there's no room for thicker traces
so
I don't know
anyways okay we're going to Speed Run
what I just did boom boom
boom boom boom
boom
[Music]
what did we say we said
100 fully constrained let's go now we
create that [__] bad or we make that
[__] five now we say um
boom
boom boom boom boom now we say a
uh oh wait actually do we have the
points already I then we might be able
to just do this oh did we select it on
the wrong
thing let's see does this give us the
points okay it
does uh
v h
H
um
um uh G was it g no wait hold
on how do we get the radius on this
thing KO
constrain k for constraint all right we
make it
10 okay now we um boom boom boom e okay
wait there we go now
I uh oh see what happened was we didn't
do it on this face I
think what Happ if I move it in
there
I think it's
okay dude am I getting fast at this
thing how do you spell
Soldier
Boy
tell
them uh beat
challenge as fast as
possible
take was it this guy dude if it was this
guy I'm like into theed easyy I think
it's just really cool to see guys push
games to
the second rule is I have to sequence
everything no Loops I have to click
everything in my hand and I think that
should be okay first attempt let's just
take a nice and but when I checked the
time I noticed it was under
[Music]
40 I don't think this is the
one Crank That speedrun Tik
Tok he's like oh don't tell me I got
it
I think I think this is the
one is so
[Music]
good don't tell it please tell me I got
it no
way
[Music]
coming off the fingertips I'll tell you
that dude he deserves a [__] sub and
like for that that is
hilarious oh jeez that is so good okay
oh tell me I got
it all right so then uh so we're good
we're fully constrained now we put that
pocket two
first
okay now on this face new sketch
rectangle not
cornered oh wait hold on see what
happened
there doesn't it give me these by
default so Boy tell
them
uh uh wait wait no it's s It's s doom
doom doom and then that gives me an over
constraint what is the over
constraint I don't know what it is but
we can just delete it all right then
we're good all right now we make a
pad uh
25 30 50 50 60
70 we don't know we don't know we don't
play with that [__] now what's the thing
for filet there's got to be a dude there
why isn't there like
a why do I have to use the mouse for
that now see it's it's not you can't
like just do that all right so now we f
10 oh [__] that's not what we want to
do
delay we need to add one
more hold on does not select we got to
select don't tell me I got
it
[Music]
soldja boy
tillum speedrun getting quick getting
quick I'm actually curious can you like
run into that thing what happens if I
change this
F to be like 15
[Music]
interesting look what a
horrible error
message top obb B DS data structure
Point input
error all right we'll just play this
too but see
now
see the thing about 3D modeling though
is now let's say I want to edit both of
these guys can I edit both of
these oh that selects all the incident
faces that's cool or incident edges
that's cool cool cool that makes it look
nice that makes it look real nice I like
my part better than him
okay so we're going to save that going
say new
folder
prad
one all right on to video
two one more
time
[Music]
no don't tell please tell me I got it
dude this guy so sick man let's see his
videos ah he's
a that's
hpe okay so Boy tell him one time I was
getting an Uber back from uh making
beats and C
and the guy was like my Uber driver was
like he's like what you been up to I'm
like just been cooking up some beets and
he's like oh yeah how many you make and
I was like oh [__] cuz I only made
[Laughter]
one all right so we did that one number
three me I got it for beginning Series
this is the third part of these freeat
videos and we're looking at learning
freeat from a beginner's perspective but
at the same time learning how the
individual flows work in freand and how
they can be utilized whilst we've learn
the fundamentals in this video we looked
at workflow which included the part
design and Sketcher for creating a part
design object which we later output to
as a file in this video we're keeping
with a part design workflow but we can
that we created don't
wor just press spice bar on pocket and
come into sketch and press spice bar on
that so you can see the sketch in
white sketch pad there
and lastly we've got fillets press in
the space
bar as we go through and we can see
what's
happened we can hide the sketches by
clicking on the sketch from the screen
as well it highlights on the left hand
side and press the space
bar so the next thing is to export this
out as something like an STL to last to
3D print it or use it somewhere else say
in another 3D program to do that we need
to select the Last Action from the left
hand side here so this one here and we
just go to file and Export that's it and
it'll ask us the file name and also the
[Music]
file
whoa
oh wait there it
is
ah
bro why doesn't it show the actual
extension no they're not just 3D object
there there's like a file extension to
it it's just stupid dude
anys the STL is much
bigger pretty
cool that's
[Music]
sweet all
right cool so we did that all right now
we're actually on to the next part
Hi View and welcome to the free cand for
beginner series fre close working freand
and how that can be utilized once we've
learn fundamentals in the video we look
at workflow which included the part
design and Sketcher for creating a part
design object which be later output to
STL form as a thought in this video
we're keeping with a part design
workflow but we're can to look at
refining that part that we created don't
worry if you haven't created that part
yet we're going to cover that in this
video we're going to be looking at
different sketching technique in there
which includes arcs and fillets we can
learn how to preserve constraints this
will reduce the amount of sketches that
we have in our workflow everything will
be in one sketch for one of the planes
then we're going to switch to another
another plane and use a simple sketch
upon there so we're going be modeling
also in two planes we also going to
introduce the Symmetry constraint as
well finally rather than output into a
sdl file for the file output we're going
to be output into a technical drawing b
gets up and running in free cand once we
finish the results will be a technical
drawing and a part to all to be
recreated by a third party those
drawings are cool I like those drawings
they really feel official if you like
what please subscribe to the site I also
have a coile you can donate to if you so
desire and that's at kfi.com
g0 or also run a patreon where you can
subscribe and get content and that's at
www.patreon.com mango jelly Solutions
any money that's mang jell in the
previous video we made this object using
a part design workflow and exported a
steel F we're going look to the tree
View and we can see the actions that
built up this model so our last action
you see a little green icon there at the
tip is where this stops and this is
visible anytime we can go back in time
and press the space bar to have a look
to see how the model was created so we
can go all the way back to the pad if we
come into here and expand this icon for
the pad we can see the underlining
sketch I press the space bar again just
to show that we can see that sitting
under there if we look at the sketch we
can see we 100 550 mm and we've got a
single rectangle now if we look at the
other sketch let's close out there and
come into this pocket which cre the
holes we can see we have a sketch for
those holes let's hide that pocket you
can see this sketch here and then we got
the sketch let's look at simplifying
this model and through simplification
we'll learn a bit more about how to
sketch in freeat so for this build the
pocket is going to be off bounds so is
the fillet so we're removing these from
our workflow let's see how we can do
that so I'm going close
out and create a new document again
we're going to be using the part design
workflow so part design so click on that
and we're going to create our first
sketch first of all if you remember we
need to create a body so we look at task
you can see create body is here come
back over to model we're going to use
this icon here what happens if we add a
sketch before we add a body let's try it
let add a sketch and then we click on
the XY plane because we want to look
down on the object we're going to STI to
one plane for part of the object then
move to another in a moment so let's hit
okay let's have a look at the model Tab
and see what's happened a body has been
created for us and a new sketch has been
played inside that body so let's start
sketching we're going to start with the
rectangle tool this one here drop this
down and have a sent rectangle again if
I come to the task we can see the alut
constraints under the edit controls here
is checked and the avoid redundant Al
constraints are checked as well this
means that when we hover up over that
center point you can see that we've got
a rectangle underneath the crosshairs
plus a constraint there so that's say
line coin to that point and we got point
on line constraint these match the
constraints up here so I'm going to
hover over the center point and click
once and drag this into position now
it's dragged into position I'm going to
either hit the right Mouse button or the
Escape key so I can add some Dimensions
let's add a length to the top with the
horizontal length or horizontal distance
constraints click once and now we can
add
one and using the vertical constraint
vertical distance so 50 mm is
constrained so I can't actually move
this you can still get fully constrained
fully close and we add a bit of angle to
the screen using our Mouse pointer and
holding down one of the short cut Keys
depending and I'm using the alt to
rotate when we pad the sketch make sure
it's selected you'll see we'll get the
normal pad so we can add a length to the
pad of 5 mm previous video we selected
the top face and added a sketch we're
not going to do that in this one what
we're going to do is Miss that step and
come into the pad and expand the pad and
look back at the sketch at the moment is
hidden if we double click it we enter
the sketch now we're going to add 10 mm
circles before the holes so what happens
if we add a sketch inside here that's
experiment let's first click on the
circle and I'm going to add this circle
anywhere inside here so let's add the
circle click once and pull this out make
sure you don't touch any of these lines
because you can see we got tangent or
constraints coming up and that will
straint into that line just place it
here this is not fully constrained now
you can see the outside has turned a
much P Green that means that it's
constrained but the sketch isn't fully
constrained let's close out of here and
see what happens you can now see that
we' got a hole just by this pad without
using any Pockets let's go back let's
move this outside let's move this
outside now this is invalid because it's
created multiple bodies if I hit close
now you can see that nothing has changed
but if we look over to the left hand
side you'll see that we've got an
exclamation mark on the pad that means
it's in error and you can see down the
bottom when we roll over that
exclamation mark Or that pad result has
multiple solids this is not supported at
this time you may see this as a popup so
for instance in the report
view come up and then turn it off in the
upper window to resolve this problem we
can double cck on the sketch and just
move this back inside and that resolves
the issue so let's place this as holes
inside the sketch we don't have to
import any external geometry because
we've got the geometry already here
first thing I'm going to do is place all
them and we just click it once and
advance that now got theed let's add a
diam to this let's come up and we're
looking for this di here this may be a
different place on your tool bar what
we're looking for the constrain diameter
this will add constraint across the
allall so let's add 10 mm and hit okay
we get the constraint here and we get a
qualtity constraint to burn across all
the holes this means if we do change
this say 50 mm all the others will
change now if we look at the way this is
built this is built over these two lines
vertical and horizontal which allows for
symmetry across this so before we kept
these two in line we can add a SYM
constraint in here so taking this point
and this point then we have to select
where we want this symmetrical over
let's do it from the top here so we're
going to take this Center Point and this
Center Point and the last item is the
one we want symmetry across so for
instance we want it across this vertical
axis we just click it and add the
Symmetry
constraint these are now symmetrical
across that line we can move those in
and out move them up and down and they
will stay on that line but in symmetry
to each other we can do the same with
this one and this one and use the
horizontal line and use a symmetry
constraint across those St these are now
symmetrical now we can move this up and
down left and right and we got symetry
across those but we've got one that's
left over now previous video we Ed
horizontal and vertical constraints and
we can do the same with this one so we
click this point and this point and use
vertical constraint that pulls that in
line and we just do the same with this
point and this point and use the
horizontal constraint we have now plac
this symmetry across this line what's
good about this is that we can reduce
the amount of constraints that we did in
our last video for instance we can take
this point now and set this a distance
away from here and yeah dude it's like a
constraint minimization problem that's
so cool everything's the same man
constraint before we used horizontal
vertical constraints to place these in
constraint with each other and then used
this point and this one created L
constraint G and did the same down here
this time we just need to create
constraint between this point and this
point placing a height of 10 mm and then
do the same all
right so
boy
just do
this oh good boy
so first thing we want to
do I don't know what that
did oh wait
actually yeah we
want okay yeah so
now
okay so
[Music]
now and then I think we do this one too
right I think we want to I think he did
uh oh [__] used I think he then
uh
cool this point and this one created L
constraint and did the same down here
this time we just need to create
constraint between this point and this
point placing white of 10m and then do
the same this point and this point by
creating a length you can see everything
has become fully constrained underneath
let's place 10 mm in let's have a look
at what we
got we've got let's have some
constraints to deal with which makes a
much need to sketch and we can just take
these and pull them across over left
hand side we can see how it's being made
up let's hit close and now we have our
pad with the holes oh wait I forgot to P
it though wait hold on okay let's do
this
this sketch
pad okay
cool cck on sketch and creating arcs for
our fets rather than using the but how
we create an AR this when we connected
up or well there is a f tool within the
Sketcher and it can be accessed up here
FS there are two tools
here sket
if this by just creating a simple
rectangle over here we can understand
how it works
so created a simple rectangle I'm going
to use a f tool the basic f tool not the
constra for sketch f it so select it and
then you can see our Mouse has changed
to crossair where the f tool there and
we select one side look where we
selected so you can see I selected here
and if I select here it creates an arc
between those let's come to edit and UND
do and try that again but this time I'm
going to select over here and then
select just
here you can see what's happened an AR
has been placed on the first point that
we selected and it's created an arc
through there you may be wondering why
it didn't create an arc here and that's
because it would require a beast line to
go that so this is a standard Arc that's
been created Z do and we'll just place a
small AR between these two wait what the
[__] just
happened what did he do here and then SL
just
here you can see what's happened an arc
has been placed on the first point that
weed and it's AR through there
you don't tell me I got
it
oh
wait I I don't
understand
I don't I don't really get
it wondering why it didn't create an A
and that's because it would require a
beast line to go there so this is a
standard Arc that's been created contr Z
do and we'll just place a small Arc
between these two
this is exactly the same if I hit the
right Mouse button to get the mouse it's
exactly the same as taking these two
points and creating this between them so
I hit delete on the keyboard I'll that I
can come up to my arc I'm going drop
this one down to end point and R point
I'm going hover over that point quincent
come across quincent and we can create
an arc there like so point back hit the
right mous button and box click and drag
and we're going to delete that selection
let's come back to our sketch and zoom
in let's add a fillet between these two
points and see what happens click on the
f tool and select where we want the F to
be notice something think that that this
is no longer constrainted it's in white
all the rest is in green that's it edit
and undo and have a look at the
constraint preserving sketch F and try
again same process so what's happened is
that we now got this point here and
we've got this AR so we got this extra
point sit under let's try it up here so
going this line and this line and now we
get that F there we look at this point
you notice that all the constraints have
been preserved around that point so
we've got the length going across here
it's con out there and we have the 10 mm
preserved here so 10 mm of this circle
away from here I hit contr Z and use a
different F so the first one sketch that
and try that constraints get removed so
the constraint preserving F will be the
best one to use if we do these F and add
to our sketch but we still have to add
addition constraints so let's go ahead
and add constraint preserving sketch
with it to these sides remember all it
is is an arc and we'll come over and add
it to this side as well so we start with
one side at the top and we'll work our
way along so we added these ARS just
going to hit the right M Buton M back
and we're just going to move these out
the way so we can see this Arc in
here let's add some D to this Arc and
come and use constraint diameter and we
set that to 10 mm we can see we're
starting to get some constraint back in
to our sketch let's do the same over
this side now remember before that if we
add the constraint to here we can copy
the constraint over one way of doing
that is clicking on here this AR come
over to the other side and clicking on
this one we' got both selected and using
the equality constraint equals we're now
back in constraint if you didn't know
about this you probably go through and
start adding constraints to these lines
simple as using the constraint
preserving fill and adding those in just
add them to the other side as well again
using this
fill and can you just click on the
point M back we have right Mouse button
click and come in and select both of
these and this one and use inquality
we're now constrain again and close we
can see we have a 30 base that's [__]
sweet and one single pad we can do the
same
okay so this is what I want to do I want
to
do
done boom
how do
I
nice dude free cat pretty good with the
other sketch that sits upon here but
we're going to hit a SL problem because
if you remember before what we did was
let this face create a sketch upon that
face pull in Geometry using this
geometry
tool and then added a rectangular sketch
across here to allow us to pad this up
this just for demonstration purp un
constraint here and if we pad this up
that's just okay for the time being then
in our previous video we actually fed
off these edges here this is Al we've
restricted ourselves and we're saying
we're not going to be using this we're
going to try to do this all sketches so
what do we do well let's come over to
that last action that pad and hit the
delete on the keyboard we've got this
sketch I'm going on it and hit delete
again so we going back to our original
pad I'm going to attack this from a
different plane so I'm going to go from
this plane therefore I can create a
sketch in the middle and pad out this
way so we're looking to create a sketch
on the front plane or the exed plane and
then move the sketch into the middle and
P out from there to do that we've got a
number of options we can click this SP
add
sketch so we're sketching on this
plane and then what we'll do is going to
the model come down to the sketch and we
can see we've got an attachment and we
can move that in the position
or come out here and just delete that
sketch make sure nothing is selected so
I'm going to select spare space and I'm
just going to hit create a sketch It'll
ask us what plane we want so we want and
just delete that sketch or we can come
out here and just delete that sketch
make sure nothing is selected so I'm
select stair space and I'm just going to
hit and create a sketch It'll ask us
what plane we want so we want the Z x
plane so come down look at the Z x plane
and hit okay we can see from the
crossair that's cre sketch in the middle
of this plane with no attachment to the
model we just attached it to the Base
plane now there is an advantage about
this because if we attach the sketch to
here something changed it may cause an
error we would have to go back and
reattach that sketch again because we
have symmetry in this model we can
create a sketch along this plane and
have it centered straight away in Center
so now I'm going to create a sketch Upon
This Plane now remembering back to what
we did before when we added a hole we
must be careful creating a multi object
for instance if I created my rectangle
here and it's floen above then when I go
to close and try to Pat the sketch using
the Pand everything disappears I hit
okay we can see the pad results in
multiple solids so how do we resolve
that let's hit cancel and come back into
our sketch we've got the rectangle in
here we need to attach it to this object
again we're going to pull in some
geometry as we did in the last video so
though we're sketching Upon This Plane
the top which is the XY plane we can
still pull inry from anywhere on this
object for instance let's take the
external geometry tool click it I don't
get why he's doing this it seems so easy
to do it the other way zoom in and pull
in this side here so p in that side if
we look we can see there's a DOT right
in the middle let's do the same on this
side as well so we click on that side
that edge there and we get that dot now
hit the right Mouse button and bring us
around to the front again we can click
on this point and the point that we'
imported from this which conect this
Edge and use a coincident
strength and wait what is that
one okay so what are we doing we're
going uh you don't touch
anything soja
boy what is it
GX
I'm kind of loving this is that crazy
me
I don't like how I have to guess about
whether it's a length or a height or
whatever this is supposed to be
25 okay wait but that's not right oh
wait no we constrain symmetrically when
we do the pad or something you see got
both constrained so we've got constraint
of six constraint let's click that and
what you'll notice is that the
constraint is actually hidden down here
so this will be horizontal constraint
because we don't need that to see
through this model we can use the
section view this here view section and
that cuts that model in half from our
Viewpoint so we can see now we can see
that the Str is sitting there this one
here just hit delete and now this here
is Str point this end or this end and
use
25m 25
mmra we can use this P because it's
connected to our model let's close let's
see what happens when we pad this it's
going to pad
symmetrically and you see we
successfully padded this it's ped this
forward from our center point but we
need it centered along that sketch so
our sketch was here going right through
the center so if we come down and look
at the options we have here we've got
reverse backward symmetric to Mid cool
cool very
cool let's add 5 mm P left and CLI off
and now we've got our path going I've
beening from two different planes the
X and the X1 that's the and now we have
two PS and we haven't add pocket or yet
well we need to FP these sides and
that's the same what we did before open
this pack stand out
and we're going to use the F use preser
and add to this move to the right side
and do the same don't wor about position
we're control that
fire
[Music]
and
wait
what
wait wait what did I
do
so we want this we want this and then we
say e okay okay okay we're good equals
and then the number I get it okay now
what we do is this thing no this thing
no
this oh it's
KO I 10
okay I think we can edit this
sketch like can I go in here and edit
the sketch what if I want to
change how do I grab this
guy okay so you're allowed to just do
that
set 20
minutes and we might need to change
theor
what we we close and we the model this
time much more compact now have to
remember is that we haven't quite
finished we need to create the flip in
between these ones unfortunately we
can't do that with sketching we could
take a different rout with something
such as a loft but that's a bit Advanced
for this type of object so what we're
going to do is just add the F in here so
this line here and click come around to
the other side and control click a is
now on limits have at it again you can
see this has a Last Action so this is
the last action we're doing I know that
I don't want to model this any further
so we're just finishing off and we'll
change the
F 6 M comes
back and okay now the other thing is is
that we may want to F these holes or sh
so we set these holes in to all the
screw to sit deep we come up to the top
we can see we got TOS well so we can
click on that and we get a sh hole
within that's add the other
edges that's a bit too much
so and I so
1.5 click off we can see that's effect
okay the Sher is a dresser so we look up
the part design dress feature and we can
see the flip and Sh in there again
that's something to use last of all just
to finish off model so we're going do
what we've done cre technical drawing
this allows us to cre number of drawing
from different VI of and add Dimensions
to that drawing to do that we can come
over to the tech drawbench go through
Basics to get very simple te drawing we
first need a page come dra and I'm going
to insert the page using template we got
a number of SG templates and you can
make your own I'm just going to go for a
blank page to scroll down and use the A4
portra blank and open up we've got our
page and we can see the page has opened
on the left hand side now to add a vi
herey from the model we first need to
click on the body make sure we have it
in the right view points so something
like this and then come insert view or
use this here come back on page you will
notice that view has been inserted don't
worry about the black dots around here
we'll remove those in the Quick Way get
number of VI here because we can come
back and bring into another and do the
same and view so we
Qui this REM VI click those more so I'm
going to first add a 3D view so I'm
going to go for something like this use
the corner of this queue just to
position myself body and go dra ins view
so we have our first VI in page
I'm now going to do the same but I'm
going to swap this to the Top This Time
body come and we're going to insert Pro
on left hand side you can see that our
window has changed we got of op here go
back to the page we can see we've got
this view here push to and we got view
scroll zoom out scroll down and just
move this down way this is from the top
and it say from the front we can now
take the secondary projections and click
to decide which we want so I'm going to
use this one kind of Co and top one show
the bottom we got just Direction here so
we can SW this one around and project
different views different
ways I'm going this one we need to make
some adjusts to this side here this is
front we can adjust the labels of these
as well
top
[Music]
now onel and top enter and come down
toel so we canjust name of these to
fit that's rot take this one around
right way click on it come down to the T
Tab and look for rotation and we'll set
this one nice and great you can see got
blue tick that means it need refreshing
to go come up to edit refresh h contr r
we can see this is rotated around but
it's around the wrong way so I'm going
to
go90 and H contr R key that's now around
the right way these move as run so we
can move this down to the right hand
side here now we've got our basic
projections of our model on screen now
one thing you might think about is the
size of the points on here so I'm just
going to zoom in and we see that we have
a number of points about the vertexes of
your model these may look bit big but if
we went to final print preview what we
see is that print preview doesn't
actually show those they just show hand
VI we can these points from if so design
by coming over to the right hand side
here and looking for this icon here turn
view frames on and off also aable from
tetrol turn view frames on and off and
you can see those points have
disappeared this also s so if we go to
edit preferences what you'll see now is
that we have the icon on the left hand
side we started to use Tech draw click
on that icon we got a number of options
in here font lab size and then we have
this vertex scope here so we can reduce
this down to say one apply and okay we
just come out of the show frame mode and
you can see that vertex has been reduced
down now now the good thing about
leaving the vertex as it is is that
they're easily selectable when you
actually put the dimensions so using
these Dimension tools here so I'm going
to go back in preferences and set them
back to five in the scale down to the
ver scale and increase it up to five and
apply now you may not see this take
effect straight away we can come up to
the T draw and withraw a page and then
Le come back the icon is also available
on the tool bar with draw page here so
if none of those do take effect we can
just press that button to allow us to
refresh the page let's add some
Dimensions to these items on script so
scroll down and take a look at the top
view we can decide where we want to
place the lengths take count we have
this F here if we want to take a length
then we going have to use this point and
this point and you can see how easy
those RS SL now this is different to the
sketch we would have to use the control
key so I'm holding down the control
seled one hold down control and select
the other those two have been
highlighted in green and they're
selected so I zoom a bit more we can see
those are highlighted in green we just
use this position now I can place an
insert Dimension that places the
dimension across these and I can click
on where it has Dimension hold on last
one and drag this out into position also
can drag upwards if I want Dimension to
be above place this one here let's do
the same Force width this one click once
hold down the control and click again
this time I'm going to use horizontal
diation and we can place this where we
want so I'm just place it here for the
fets we can click on the fet and come up
and use the radius Dimension that PES
the radius in there and we just drag
this into position we can do the same
for this in radius this circle
rock we can see that's going in there we
can if I delete that just click on it
and delete click on the inner circle
come up and place the DI across it
rather than using the radius and we can
move that off again to the
side now I've got these dimensions in
here let's work on a different view so
I'm going to scoll the top and work on
this view here now I'm looking for
Dimensions that I haven't already
specified in there so one of them is
this radius here for this
AR and we can go for height in here if
we've got a single line like this that
we don't need to sel the vertexes with
as we would do with say the length here
because we hav got a line between these
because they separated with this Arc
here we can just select the
line and use the vertical dimension in
there we have this Dimension here now
and we can add Dimensions to any of our
views as we see fit
and this point and this point using the
control
key Place Cent and it's a simples up now
let's come back to file and preview and
see what this going look like and we'll
zoom in and just scroll down to a look
it's kind of cool labels coming through
and we can solve that by coming over to
one of these views and clicking them
let's click this view here and I'm just
going to go back to the example and have
a look to we'll see where that is so
that's from the left side so we can come
back into the page click on this view
here and come over to the
data you can see that our view has been
selected come down to the caption I'm
just going to add in left view now I
want to go to file print preview we can
see our caption has been
added let's do the same for the
others so our front
view and this one is our top
view we add all captions and this one
just add 3D
VI now I want to add a
title draw
come down to annotations and we've got a
number of different annotations here I'm
just going to insert annotation we get
this view box here that we can move into
position and I'm just click that to get
the text up and give it a
title and finally hit okay we can change
the properties of this title ick on The
annotation coming down and we've got a
number of different styles fonts Etc
here so I can increase the text size I'm
pressing the uper key to increase that t
size or can use or typ in want
here remember to save as you go along
and that's how quick preview for this
one file print preview and we can see
from print preview that we need
formatting we can see how to put
techical drawing together quite easily
anytime we can come out to file export
PDF or come to the and Export page as SG
or export page as dxf there are a number
of other options in here such as insert
bit map ad lines ad veres Etc we can
experiment with those as you feel the
need so now we finished with the part
and produce techn drawing and we've got
more knowledge of three for using the
Sketcher that's what is introducing
another webench but now pretty cool
you've realized that sketching is a
fundamental part of freeat we're going
to be exploring that further in the next
video us the image workbench and
the wait did we do it I think we did it
so now we can save this now we want to
go down
need oh
cool
how ha you do
that
wait hold on what if I did
this
[Music]
it's kind of
cool
okay can you
just
oh
[__]
what
we use of these
then
there now we get the
dimensions
that
what is
it dude these things need to have
all right well let's go to number
four hi everyone welcome to part four of
the learning freead for beginners where
we're teaching the fundamentals of
freead we're doing that in a practical
way by understanding workflows in
today's tutorial we'll be going through
a workflow that allows us to trace an
image VI importing it in the image
workbench whether it be a photograph an
illustration Etc the image workbench
will allow us to load the reference
images on the different planes and scale
them to the correct scale which will
then allow us to trace them in the
Sketcher we'll be using standard
Sketcher geometry including construction
geometry this seems like I want our
sketch much more easier than laying a
number of data and constraints down
especially when we have an awkward shape
we'll then be outputting that sketch to
a part design workflow to create the
finished object by the end of this
tutorial you'll be able to trace a
exhaust flange so we've got the finished
output on the left and the sketch has
been created on the right we'll be doing
this from an illustration of exhaust
flange with known Dimensions just for
the circle in the
middle if you like what you're seeing
please subscribe to the site I also have
a cofi or coffee site that you can
donate to Dimensions just for the circle
in the
middle for slm g0 also run a patreon
where you can subscribe and get extra
images in freead we need to take to span
the channel when it comes to sketching
external images in freead we need to
take account of composition scale and
Clarity of our image so for instance
this image is perfect if we want to
trace this object because we' taken a
picture of the image directly above it
and we're looking straight down on the
image so we haven't got any perspective
issu ches there the only thing this is
missing is a scale now I can take that
scale from the original object because
I've got it here in front of me and I
know the dimensions of the object but if
we didn't we need a scale in there so
placing like a ruler or something like a
coin we can actually get the scale there
but we need to position it properly to
get the correct scale for our
perspective using object such as this we
have the scale on the base of where that
object sits this is no good because this
object has that
then our scale will be out it would be
much better to place the scale on a
piece of paper and place that on top of
the object the that we have to be wary
of is how we're taking the shot and how
we're setting up that shot so for
instance this one you can see the sides
of the object we're not directly above
it we're not shooting directly down the
object so our perspective as well as our
rotation is out for this video I'm using
an illustration of a flange so this is
an ex flange we're going to be using
that image which is going to be
available for you to download and
through this we're going to be learning
basic sketching and also how to use
construction geometry to start traing
we'll be utilizing a workbench called
the image workbench first we need a new
document in fream we use this icon here
or file new we're going to come over to
the image workbench and you'll find that
the image workbench is a simpl workbench
of just three icons here the first one
creates an
IM there's no image
workbench
hi welcome to the channel today we're
going be answering a few questions that
have been coming my way regarding
viewers asking where the image workbench
has gone in 1.21 now after thank one of
my patrons David for this because he was
one of the first made me aware of this
problem and also gave a solution back in
.2 and some of .21 versions of fre can
we still have the image word bench now
the image word bench allows you to
import an image and this can be a
technical drawing or reference material
that we use as a reference to CR models
from so I'm just import an image by XY
plane using the image web bench and we
can scale this by using the scal Tor we
select two points and we set the
distance and then we select the image
plane and okay this will scale the image
in the correct Dimension allowing us to
keep the scale of model to the reference
material so you can see I've done a
rough rule against there and it's 23
I've done this at some distance so this
will be not totally accurate but our
image is in you can see this is slightly
out because I measure this as distance
but if we go back to .21 we can see that
the image is nowhere to be seen so it
has been removed but it's been
incorporated into the import so file
import and we got a much better
experience with this tool in here so if
I bring in the same technical drawing
open what happens is that it comes in
the same on the left hand side we have
our image and if we double click it then
we get all the scaling the planes and
all the tools we had before in the image
we so we got the planes XY x z y z which
we can s he didn't give me an image so
should I even watch
that
give
it well I'll watch it can see the size
of the object scal image plane if we
click it you this we're going to be
learning basic sketching and also how to
use construction will be utilizing a the
image webench first we need a new
document in fre can use this icon here
or file new we're going to come over to
the image webench and you'll find that
image weben is a syben of just three
icons here the first one creates an
image and places in a new tab we'll be
using these two here so this one is
create an image plane this create image
plane on the different planes that
available click that and we'll select
the image which PG
transparency open that it will ask us
what plane we want to put on and I want
the plan you see the Q is pointing
downwards that's highlight top we here
we want it from looking down looking
down on the object okay that image has
been placed on screen but it is not
disale we next have to find an element
on here that is disale I
know in dier be using that scale to do
that we'll use this icon here scale
image plan if we click it will ask us to
set the distance so here I'm put mmers
and then it's going ask us to select the
first point zoom into the image and we
need to click once so I'm going click
once around about here this is just go r
scale because we be put in the other in
moment and once I've clicked it's going
to ask us to select the second point now
you may get a red line so you can see
that red line there just tweak the view
point to be in a different place and I
can select where I want it to place so
I'm go from the top looking down and
there if you don't see that red line we
can still select and then select the
next one just makes our life a lot
easier and click we' got that position
another reason why you won't see that
red line if I click on this image and
come down to our placement open this up
into the position open this up then I
just change the Z you can see that's
moved that's be it so if this is raed up
above the Z or whatever you're looking
at we can just drop that and you'll see
that line there again now we need to S
an image plan so come over and select it
it's already selected just click it
isn't and if we look down towards the X
and Y size of this image if I hit okay
you'll see that change so this is now in
the correct scale you can check that by
using the measure tool measure distance
and come in and select you probably see
another issue here is that now Mouse
pointer is cross is white we can't re
see on but add some angles you can see
6925 and that's about right that cck on
dist it doesn't have to be totally
accurate it just get
now we're ready to use the Sketcher to
trace this image to the sketch we from
drop down and we're going to create a
new sketch now make sure this image plan
is selected otherwise tou the image
plane if it is and we go to sketch
create sketch then it's not in the world
we can change this to don't attach and
okay so create a new sketch what PL upon
and we want it on the XY so the to here
and okay the SK will be created you can
see that our image is in sended in this
case we come to the mod click on the
image plan come down to the placement
come down to the position open up and
start nudging the X and Y until we are
in the center I'm say that's about right
there at this point you may want to
start sketching from down here the
center point is where we're going to
constrain everything to and this is
important because we want to know how to
create this we have some symetry across
image I know for a fact that this circle
is 70 mm so I'm going to use that as a
point of constraint so I'm going to
constrain the circle that starts to this
end point to do that I'm going to come
over to this circle click it and come
down now straight away you can see an
issue we've got the white crossair heads
so when I start entering this we lose it
what we can do is come the model click
on the image plane and then click on VI
you'll find a number of options in here
we got bounding box display mode Etc we
come down we've got transparency and we
can drop this transparency by using up
down key we can adjust the value 36
therefore we can see our cross heads
that means that we've got a better
chance of sketching this easily the
other way to do it is to come into the
edit preferences and on the left hand
side you'll notice Sketcher icon because
we've open up the Sketcher so we added
two our preferences at that time click
that and we got colors we can change the
cursor crossair we may need to also
change the edge because under constrain
is white we got white image I'm going
through the transparency method first
let's just cancel out that that start
sketching so I've got the circle
selected I've got the auto constraints
on so in edit control a constraints on
means I over that point we get the coin
straint you can match those to the to
bar here so I'm coinc to that Center
Point and C once to attach it and then
bring this out and click when we get to
the circle as you can see we're not
fully centered with this circle but
that's fine I'm going to hit the right
Mouse button or hit the escape the m and
click on this circle and add a diameter
to it this down stra diameter and we're
con up to 77 mm we can see that the
sketch has gone green bright green so
constrain and now coming to the model
and clicking on the image plane I can
see that we've got TI going across here
so I'm just going to go edit refresh
just a refresh those come down to the
DAT Tab and I'm going to look at the
position in the placement and I'm going
to start moving this into position so
we're looking for a near enough fit so
best fit because we know this Dimension
and we'll be going off the other circles
in here and Clos them to I'm going to
say that we're s now and I'm going come
back over to to and we're going to start
swiching in some elements so I'm looking
around and looking at the other elements
I'm looking at these circles so these
are PL circles we're going to hit a
little bit of issue with this because we
need to F con strin sketch so let's have
a circle click on the circle come down
click around about middle and bring the
circle up we can zoom in to start to
position this okay it's great press M
button to get point back and start
manipulating this into position once
it's in position click Circle and we'll
add a constraint and I'm go for time to
constraint again 10.4 I drop this 10 mm
and that is in there but it's not fully
constrained you can see that because
it's in white and our sketch G from
bright green to more transparent green
so we need to sort the constraint out we
could use this point and this point and
use height and length constraints in
there but we're going have to do that
for all the other circles so I'm going
to constrain this via something called
construction geometry now construction
geometry allows you to add say a line
and I'm going connect up this line to
the center point and the center point of
this AR like so and then it allows you
to say if I'm looking at these then I
can constrain with an angle between here
so these are evenly spaced so we have a
360 angle divid 3 which is 120 and we
can use this one and say another line
here connect up to a circle so that's
our Circle in to that Center Point like
that and we'll create a line that
connects up coin to that Center and coin
to the center here now what we can do is
take this line and this line and place
an angle between them so using the angle
constraint straint angle and type in 120
if we don't want to do the mass what we
can do is 360 then use the slash divide
and three and that will give us the 12
there and we'll just manipulate these
into position and you can see we can
place these nothing thing I'm going to
do is take these two lines and Mak them
of equal length us con straint so those
two equals that means we can come in and
out using this point and out and side to
side so we get those into position you
may not be able to match these exactly
to your sketch because we may have
picture slight a slight angle so the
perspective is not quite right just
going to take these two these circles
one that's constraint first and then
this one and hit equality cross so this
one is equal to here so that's there I'm
just going to get one of them into
position let's do the other one at the
top so I use a circle and I'm place this
line that bothers me so much that
not toate Circle and I've hit Escape
which not good sketch coming again you
hit skape you got anything selected and
you've still got your mouse pointer
available rather than con strength
pointer then he going to exit the sketch
so now that Circle I'm just going to add
a line between this point and connect up
to that point and hit the right Mouse
button and we need an angle constraint
between this line and this line going
using the angle of
120 and let's make this line and this
line equal as well quality across there
I take this and turn it you can see
they're turning now and going out so we
can place those in cor position put some
height along this line first of all add
a vertical constraint nice vertical I
could attach it to this vertical axis
but vertical con there and wait what
ni vertical I could attach it to this
vertical aisal there and we just get
these into position so and that will do
me I can see that I've got a slight skew
on my reference image which is fine so
now I can place some length in here with
this one we'll just use the vertical
distance we can't use vertical distance
if we're this one we would have to use
the distance constraint this one here
constraint distance I'm just going to
use the vertical distance for this one
and we got 54.62 so I'm going to go 54.5
in there so we've got our constraints in
there move that across that way and
everything inside has gone green so if I
hide that image plan we can see green
one is strain there so I bit cloudy
cloudy green so we needra this one so
this need equality between yeah sure
have two things on left side so this one
this one this should turn right now
equals everything is constrained if I
come to the T and close then this is not
a valid sketch at the moment we don't
want these lines these are construction
geometry so to change those to
construction geometry we can click on
this line this line and this line and
use the total construction geometry
avable on sketch sketch geometries and
constru that's gone blue now it's a
lighter blue because it's constrained if
I close that you see those have gone so
construction geometry is basically just
a skeleton if I had nothing selected
anded this icon here you'll see these
turn blue so if you see that we have to
do is the icon again and I'll turn back
to normal construction so this toggles
this tool bar to from construction mode
or toggles selected constraint to
construction mode that's bring back our
reference image we not going to add the
ARs so I'm going come into one of the
sketches one of the sies that is most
accurate and go for top and we're going
to add an AR so using the arc here we've
got a end point I'm using Center and end
point and we'll place the mouse pointer
coin to this point so coin click and
we'll get a circle this is an arc but we
get a line so this is where the arc
actually start so I'm going to start it
here we can line up the circle with that
edge to see where we will be able to
start so I can see this AR start
finishing into the refence image here so
our AR is going be about here to here
I'm make this using this point and this
point and using this line as reference I
click that last make that symmetrical to
there it's over constraints so we've got
a problem there so if we zoom out and
use the task you can see we got
redundant constraint number 15 if I
click that it will highlight in green so
we can see we've got this vertical
constraint which we using syry we don't
need that so we hit delete already
highlighted and we've got that in
there so that's symmetrical to that
then click on this Arc and use a radius
constraint drop this down and con radius
and we about 11 mm there now got the AR
we can start putting in some line
geometry so cck the line I'm follow this
Edge click on that and follow this Edge
down like so yes good and I want this
tangent to this AR because at the moment
if I move this you can see not tangent
we need fluid Arc connection to this so
click this line and this Arc go to the
left and we got void redundant
constraints chck so this will come in
handy one creating geometry that requir
remove of all constraints so I'm going
to use constraint tangent we get this
sketch constraint substitution which is
okay so now this point which was Co has
been substituted with a tent constraint
and we've got our line in place all the
way down to about
here now this looks like an arc but what
we're going to do is Bally do the same
we did here over here just sketch that
in there using the AR G using this point
and we'll come out and just place this
AR in quickly like so so we can show you
how to actually manipulate that without
having problems now how do I make it
symmetrical to say this line here so on
this point that's not symmetrical we
want B over here we can do that by
clicking both these points and then
clicking construction and using
symmetric symet constraint there and
symmetric across there already done that
on the top one but we used Bic this
vertical line doesn't matter it still
works now we can manipulate that in
position and don't worry if it's not
good fit it's close enough now we can
just carry on and finish our model next
thing going is the line going out over
here and we'll make this Arc and this
line both of them make tent to each
other sub that now I want take Rus got
Rus in here somewhere where is it it's
here there's radius there so I want to
take this Arc and this Arc and use in
equality so those radiuses are the
same also want to take this line and
this line and make those equal so we're
beginning to build up our
shape question is is there an arc
between these and I think there is a
slight Arc there so let's add an arc and
this time I'm use the end point and room
Point Arc so I'm click this point and
this point and just add a small Arc
there back or the arc and one of the
edges and use the tcy okay so tangent
and do the same over here this one and
this one and tangent okay so now we've
got a nice smooth line between
those and we've got the equality so we
can move that into place so I can move
it about there and that's look nice so
I'm going to use this Arc and come over
and use a radius constraint on that and
that's R to0 so we got radius constraint
across
there so we done to create number of ARs
and radiuses across those now as I said
we could just do say this side and
create mirrors or po patterns or so
we're do all in sketch let repeat this
process all the way around so do that
and I'm just going lay down an arc there
and a line at this point and this point
and do this quickly and AR here so drop
that on there and we'll create another
line here come out here and place an AR
in there this point and this point and
create little Arc there and we need a
line as well so just quickly done those
around there and we'll add our Arc in
here so come up to this and drop it down
to the center end point AR and need come
and H over that Center Point come out
and what we're going to do is this time
H over this point connect AR bring this
right the way around and at this point
and connect up those are already
connected time let's bring this down but
you can see it's a bit all over the
place moment so we're missing our tcy so
this Arc this line tent see how that
straighten up there so it's nice fluid
and we'll do the same this side and
create our tcy okay we got symmetry
across here so we can take these two
points and then the last point or line
that we use is symmetrical across so
this line here constru and use the
Symmetry constraint so that's all in
symmetry let's make sure that we got tcy
across these two tcy okay and same of
this one tcy okay and same of these two
tcy and these
two and finally these
two
right we've right constraint so we have
an issue here same rund constraint is 39
so if we click 39 we can see what a
tangency constraint up here which is
redundant one there let delete that
that's because we had two tcy
constraints so that's gone now that's
all good and we need to make we've got
these arcs going all the way around here
so we need to also make this Arc equal
as well so we can take an arc and this
Arc and use the
equality these all of these lines here
and these two
need equality as well we're done the
constraint there because we've already
added somewhere so we just C on that
delete that neens up our constraints so
if we add multiple constraints and then
we added them again it just cleans them
up for us and these three arcs also need
equality across them so we almost
finished sketch it's not con let's have
a look at what it looks like close well
get in there so we're getting our
sketching down our tracing
down let's come back into the sketch and
let's start adding because we've
done a few dat constraints here we have
radius we have a radius somewhere else
where's a radius there we got radius
there as well which was this one so you
can see pointing to
that and this one here we can see that
we have you can see the arrow there so
it bring this down and you can see a
little arrow in here so highlight that
see that little arrow yellow arrow here
that shows you what Ark it's using so
that one there so what we need to do is
create length a distance in this
one and that will constrain everything
because we've got equality across these
lines and this is the only one that's
not constrain because we got our radius
constraint here we got a radius
constraint in here we said that all
these ARS are
equal and we've got a radius constraint
down here was this one connected to so
that's connected so you can see the
arrow is connected to that AR there one
there everything's constrained except
for these lines but they have an
equality constraint all way across them
so the minute we add a constraint to one
of these lines it's the only one that's
left so distance across there because we
G height or length and we'll just we're
fully constraint close out that now and
we sketched our first part let cck on
the image space very cool and there it
is we' only got a sketch so we can use
that in the part design or the parts
let's use this say in the part design
come the part design and we'll create a
body the mod we can see the body has
been added but the sketch isn't inside
it so if I click on the sketch try to
pad this then you cannot use sketch not
inside the body so what we have to do is
take that sketch and drop it inside the
body simple that now when use the pad we
get our journey so far we've learned how
to use the part design the Sketcher and
now the image workbench we're going to
continue in our next video sketching and
tracing with the image workbench but
this time on multiple planes so we're
going to be looking at Trac and objects
that we need multiple reference images
for through this we'll learn much more
about sketching and part design before
moving away into other areas of free so
I hope you enjoy the tutorials and I
hope see you guys see if you like the
please subscri to I also have a COI or
coffee site that you can donate to if
you so desire and that's at KY fi.com
also
hi and welcome back to the learning
freeat for beginners series we're on
part five where we're teaching the
fundamentals of freead using practical
examples and exploring workflows in the
previous lesson we looked at tracing in
this lesson we're going to carry on with
tracing we're going to be doing a
project over two videos in the first
video we're going to trace a part in the
Sketcher using the part design workflow
we're going to create a model from a
number of images these will be used as a
tracing reference in this video we're
going to be looking at the workflow
through the part design we'll create a
sketch of one of the features using the
part design and the image workbench and
we're going to be looking at a repeating
feature so we've got a feature in there
that will save time by repeating the
feature around a circle path this will
be known as a polar pattern the result
will be a sketch of part of this feature
and as you can see it's been repeated
four times to create the finished part
we'll be later using that in the end
results to create this model so I hope
You' enjoyed your journey so far and
let's have a look at how we do this if
you like please subscribe to the S I
also Pat soate new document and we'll
jump over to the workbench from here we
can import the image using the create an
image plane and we'll just locate the
image and we'll import it this is the
top image so it be looking down on the
top so going for the XY plane and that
will import the image and we'll just
rotate our view so it's in front of us
and click top looking straight down on
the image and we'll need to scale this
image down using the tool to scale now
with this image I know some dimensions
in here I haven't got any references but
I know that going from across here click
once and then click again two edges that
this is 38
mm we select the image plan and then hit
okay this is now to scale so I zoom in I
can use the ruler just to check just to
get rough scale from here to here you
see that's 38 mm just going to rename
this image plane so we can keep track
before we're done before we tackle any
of the other images we're going to learn
how to trace this image using a sketch
part design workflow and something
called a polar pan this means that we
only need to trace one of these features
to allow us to copy it to all of these
there one feature for four features
let's come over to the part design we
bench and start creting new sketch now
in the part design webench we can follow
the tasks to guide us through the
workflow or we could use the toolbar up
the top so first of need a new body so
going click on task and create body and
then it will guide us to create a sketch
we're looking down the object so you can
see we've got the XY plane here so we
click the XY plane and hit okay this
throws us into a
Sketcher to allow us to use a polar
pattern we really need to be centered
because polar means Circle so we need to
be in the center of this object before
we start sketching to do that I'm going
to move the image behind the sketch into
position so we click on the model click
on the top Lan image come down to the
placement let SP this out we can we see
what we're doing come down to position
and we've got the X Y and Z now what the
iice use the X Y and Z from the Handler
or from a navigation Cube don't use the
red and the green lines because these
are associated with the sketch so this
is the x is the Y and the Z is always
normal to the sketch pointed towards you
and that means that's exactly the same
on each plane we need to use the global
coate system here so we can see y x and
z so I need to move this along the Y and
we can just use the up and down arrow
keys or type in a number in here minus
down plus up so you can see it's minus
three we move that down and that is
basically our the same position we've
just got adjust the X and I'm put .5 on
there change that to 0.5 so we should be
position CR now I'm going to start
sketching part of this object now to use
a polar pattern I need to just sketch
this part here and part of this first of
We going show you how polar patter works
if I created say a shape in here using
some lines so we'll connect the lines up
to the quarter of this circle so two
lines here and an arc we use the point
Arc connecting out these points and
creating a curve and what we do is we
bring this into the center and attach it
to there with coin constraint then we've
got basically a section here I've got
point on line constraint which I'm not
happy there I'm going to delete that and
just put a vertical constraint because I
want to show you what happens
when we start to move this so vertical
constraint along there so those are
constraint if I come over and hit close
and hide the Top Lane so that image is
gone we can pad this sketch by using the
pad tools and we'll give it 10 m pad so
we've got this section here what we can
then do is click on the pad and then
come up to the part design and apply a
pattern and you notice we' got po
pattern there it's also available on the
tool bar with the same angle when we
click that we see we got some
transformation problems but this feature
is being mired over to the left hand
side on the left hand side you see we
have an axis here and also we have the
occurrences which at the moment is twoo
let's increase this to four you can see
how this has been increased they do not
touch at the moment this one increase
once more and they have connected the
axis that this is on is normal to sketch
that means it's facing away from the
sketch so we sketch this part here with
a sketch that's sitting on the top Lane
the normal sketch AIS will be the axis
that's pointing towards us and this is
the one we've chosen here we can change
this to Vertical sketch axis and you can
see what's happened
there and going to horizontal skis and
then we can use the base X the base Y
and the base Z so that will be these
aises here a along
there you can see because we've got four
evenly play sections that this creates a
full circle this is the technique we're
going to be using for sketching those
features in our sketch because if we go
back to our sketch let's just delete
that press delete key and also delete
the PAD as well go back to the sketch
and bring in Top Lane then it would be
no point in sketching these individually
because we' be wasting that time now
thing to remember is that L PR section
here these features aren't with in this
slice so we need to figure out how we're
going to deal with this we still want
the four sections and the easiest way to
do that is let's take these horizontal
constraints off
horizontal vertical is that we can just
bring this around this way and make sure
that the angle between
these using the angle stra angle is
90 so we got 90 angle that allows us
to do 360 so we can look to
see
on this feature we'll slice it through
here and here and just build this
section and then repeat this around so
we've got four sections going around
here so what done is just Le that sketch
out our body to the body and create the
sketch along the XY plan and okay we
need to position our object the top
plane into the correct position so come
in and nudge the X into position around
about
.5 and the Y us up down just get into
position so minus three so we're there
now we need to sketch this so we're
going to divide this into number of
segments so four segments all us just to
sketch this top one and repeat it around
the four segments first of all we need
to create a nice debr segment so it
it'sit nicer around 360 of circle for
that we're going to use a line and come
down and connect to that point and then
come across with another line click and
over here somewhere here going to the m
point back and change both these lines
to construction geometry and we'll set
an angle between these two with angle
constraints of
90 those are in position let's make
those two equals well equal those and
we'll come in and I'm going to place
this point where this Arc starts so
where this AR start place it along there
now we need some arcs to follow this
line around so I'm going to come in and
use the center and end point Arc hover
over the center point constraints on
click come up hover over this point see
what Quin constraints and we'll bring
the AR all the way around and connect
we've got over constraints there so
let's have a look see what we've got we
got red constraint number four which is
theity and we'll hit delete on that
because we got that AR connected on both
to AR now Center out and use the inner
Mark there and connect up so those are
connected let's add a line between these
so this line to this this one so point
on point const constraint and we'll do
the same here as well so we've got our
first section in here we need to set
some radius so we set the radius off the
outside matter of fact let's just set
the radius so we got the radius and just
click 17 H enter we still got that tool
enabled so we'll let in one and set that
15 so those are in there we need to come
in and just position this point about
where this feature starts here we can
then set the angle between this line and
this line of 15 and that is all set
thereit get the mouse back and we can
start sketching this feature to do that
I'm going to use a number of ARs and
symmetry so let's use our end point and
rim Point Arc and we're going to connect
up point on point or Point constra here
and make our first Arc and bring this in
make our second Arc and then make our
next one we'll come right way across and
make that Arc there two more and connect
up to this line and make that curve CH
so we've got all these here points on
line constraint hit skate point back and
we can start just bring these in and
let's make a between these two a
tangency constraint make that smooth
same with this one tcy constraint okay
so those are nice and smooth now can
move those in and see this one moves up
and down well I don't want that one to
move up and down so I'm going to click
on there and find the center of that AR
so I see that Center's there so I can
take that point and this line and
connect that up because that keep that
on that line and we'll place it just so
it touches that edge and then restrict
this one down to this point with a i con
strength of 8
mm so that one's in there and we need
actually to have that symmetrical that's
not symetrical yet I take these two
points and this one and use a symmet
constraint we will get over constrain
because I've added this one in here
number 23 let's click it and we can see
that point on line we don't actually
need that we just need that some
distance away from there so you can see
how the aut constraints kick in and
remove any constraint that you made a
mistake with or just get that point in
place so we can move forward so now well
I want to get this nicely positioned
about
here let's take these two points so
these are the centers of the arcs I'm
going to use those and make them
symmetrical to that one so one to the
other and in the last one you want to
make it symmetrical to two of the arc so
I'm use those and make them symmetrical
to that one so one to the other and set
the last one you want to make it
symmetrical to two which is this line
and we can start getting these into
position so you can see how much easier
this is to actually start molding this
into
position so using the centers of the
make first select two and select this
line and make symetrical constraint
across
there and we can pull one out and decide
where it's going to sit now there's many
ways of constraining these M take some
time we've got symmetry across here so
we can start constraining these down to
make this all green we've got 5 degrees
Freedom at the moment so that's set the
radius of these so I'm going to take
this one set the
radius
2.5 just it slightly set this one radius
of two and set the radius of this one as
well this one is 10.75 slightly high but
that's fine so now we've got this and
you can see that we've got much more
restricted down in and out movement
basically these not up and down hit
control Z just to get them back into
position we've got two degrees of fre
them let's click and we can see that
these points here and this so that's
lock down these
two 3.3 we got one degree of Freedom now
so there's one thing that we need to
sort and I think it's just going to be
this here so this one and this one place
a length in there or 5 mm so that's all
lock down we can now start trimming some
of this away so I'm looking at the
object where we need some lines actually
so let's get some lines in here from
here to here and the
same make sure it's got a vertical
constraint I'm going to place in
symmetrical so taking these two points
and the center line this one here make
sure that's selected so these two points
the B points actually so these two and
this Center Line this one here and do
symmetry both constrain 35 so CLI number
35 and delete and that's in symmetrical
constraint there and what might do is
actually just take this line and this
point so the center of that Arc and put
a point on line constraint Point object
constraint so now we F the constraint we
need to trim this so we need to remove
this line here and these lines at the
top we may start to remove some of the
constraints when we start trimming so we
have to be careful that so let's hit the
trim to and that start trimming this
line here the tri we can see that we're
already lost constraints if escape and
just move say this constraint we can see
what's happened we no longer got a
height restrict against this one you can
see one degree of freedom and these ARs
here are the course of the issue h
control Z just to put that back in
position and make sure SED we going to
do Center points and come down and
select this Center Point and place a
height in there 18.54 everything's G
green again and I'm going to carry on
with the triming so next one is this one
and then last of all this one so we're
fully constrained and we're all ready to
go doesn't matter how you constrain this
you may have more constraints less
constraints in there which just go
constrain sketch and we safe to use that
let's hit close and click on the top
Lane and press the space bar and we've
got our sketch really go now click on
sketch and select pad tool and it is now
starting to pad one thing that you want
to be aware of is that if you come into
the sketch if this is not fully
constrained and say we had a break in
this for instance let's put two lines in
here like so and what I'm going to do is
just Trim in the middle so we trim out
that line there and we'll delete these
two lines so I just split that in half
if this was just out the top of here
then that looks like there's nothing
wrong with this sketch it looks like up
but it's not constrain if I hit close
and try to P that now it will disappear
it goes into error you can see we can
the bottom we can find that problem by
coming up to the sketch and validate
sketch but first we must select it
select sketch sketch validate sketch and
here we got highlight Trav and Vertes
click that you can see in yellow that's
highlighted there you can see as we zoom
in like P so we can just fix that let's
go into the sketch and just control set
that and there we go go
back let's close that and create our pad
I'm just going to go for the default of
10 mm here okay I'm now going to create
a polar AR of this so I click on the pad
come up to the part design come up toly
a pattern and come down to Polar pattern
it will say the transformation is not
successful we can see it's over here
this because it's disconnected from this
body now remember the axis is in the
middle so it be rotating around the axis
and if we drop down we can see what axis
is normal to sketch as we said before
you got sketch the axis normal to sketch
is the Z axis so this Z axis here is not
actually the axis of the sketch is the
AIS of the Bas set this one here we can
use either or normal sketch or Z AIS
that's increases currence to three and
now four and we can see that's all
connected out there okay and we now have
our feature but you can see we've got
these lines in here that's going across
here you may not want that because it
creates extra we can remove those by on
the Polar P come down to the refine on
the data Tab and what this does it just
removes those redundant faces so click
off now I've s that true we've got one
face and reduced faces going around the
outside that's our feature
completed we will now move on to
understanding how we can create the rest
of this object we'll now take our parts
being created from the PO and using a
number of reference images and create
our finish model and that'll be
available in the second video to this
part and should be available on my
channel in the next few days if not
available now please check the
description for the playlist and you'll
be able to find it there hope you enjoy
the series and hope to see you again in
the next video if you like the please
subscribe to the site I also have code
or coffee site that you can donate to if
you so desire and that's at
Koy hi everyone and welcome back to
another part of the learning free C for
beginners where we're teaching the
fundamentals of freead with practical
examples and by learning freead
workflows we're in the middle of a
project where we're creating a simple
part by tracing reference images in the
image workbench using the Sketcher to
trace those images into a part design
workflow we're carry on when we left off
in the previous tutorial but this time
we can combing the multiple reference
images along with what we created with
the polar pattern bring those together
to create the end result if you haven't
follow the previous tutorial you'll need
to follow that to create one of the
features of this object so let's have a
look how we finish this object so we can
move on to something a bit more
interesting if you like please subscribe
to the site I also also run
patre so in previous video create this
polar pattern and this object we're
going to use this to complete the whole
object now so I'm just going to save
this off as a different
file and I'm going to delete the PO
pattern and delete the pad inside we
have the sketch I'm going to make sure
the body is active to body therefore
anything we create will be placed inside
this body otherwise it will actually
create a new body and place those in
there let's get some images in to finish
off this object so we're going to start
in the image workbench and I'm going to
hide the top plane and hide the sketch
we're loading the image now so I'm going
to come in create an image plane come
into the
images and select the base. JPEG and
open that up this is going to be sit on
the XY plane so you'll notice that this
top image this one here is actually on
the wrong plane I'm sort that out in a
minute because that sketch is also the
wrong click on the top now looking at
the image we've got scale here but it's
only going to scale the base of this
it's not scale of this feature because
it has depth and this close to the
camera so that's scale this image now
it's going to ask us for a distance and
also select the two points so I'm going
to come in from zero click and I'll do
14 and type in 1140 mm because this R is
in centimeters set the image plane and
hit okay and we're going to rename this
to Bas plane we now can take some
measurements off of here so I'm going to
use the measure tool and come in and
just measure across here and we can see
that's 47 or say that's about 48 mm
that's bring in the other image so I'm
going to come around to this side and
bring in side image bend the image bench
and we need to create image in 3D space
and we go down to the side JPEG and open
that up along the X Z plane and hit okay
let's place that in there it is around
the wrong way but that a
minute
what I guess I could just take some
photos
but I don't
know uh hello
what's up my
game what's up with my game
bro do I have a filter
on I don't know I feel like the meter is
just wrong I'm going to get some
water
for
e
[Music]
along the X to Z plane and okay let's
place that in there it is around the
wrong way we that a minute now let's
have a look at the scale we've got this
scale here but it's no good to us
because this is closest to the camera so
we can take the reference off of this
one well we've taken the length here so
we're going to use 4754 48 M we can see
it's from this point to here we can't do
it from here because well this is
closest to the camera so that would be
no good let's come around and we'll
scale from this point to this point 48
mm so using the
scale and we want 48 mm and we'll s just
in here and all the way up to about here
select the image plane and hit okay that
is scaled now that's rename that image
plane to side
plane that's place this so if we look
it's around the wrong way so we need to
flip this around so left the side plane
right click transform make sure our
rotational increments is set to 15
therefore when we flip this around it's
in increments of 15 and we get a nice
little line there one side will be black
so we come around to the other side we
can see the image click on the
navigation so we can get it just right
and we can start moving this up do a
little bit of angle so we can see the
image underneath there we go and we'll
move this
across and we'll move this up like
so and just move this across so we can
see that sitting across there this more
adjust in that in a
moment there let's hide that distance
let's go to the
top and I'm going to start sketching
this we're upside down so let's bring
this around there we go let's come over
to the part design and make sure this
body is active so it's bold if it's not
just right click tole Active Body that's
active there click the body and then
create a new sketch and we want it on
the same plane so the XY plane top the
XY plane and we can start sketching this
isn't positioned correctly so I just can
come over the model click on the Bas
plane placement and we'll change the
angle and just straighten up and we got
the position X Y Etc and we'll move it
up along the y- AIS and we'll start to
get the square in here so let's click on
the Square sare rectangle come in and we
just want to sketch along this line here
and out to here now we got that in there
we can set the
length if I remember rightly this one
was 48 mm there we go that's in there
and this height that's 52 I'm going to
say that's 51 because that will p pull
that in there and we can position that
so that should be about right now I'm
going to take these two points make
nothing seled take the two Corner points
and we're going to make symmetry across
this point so that allows us to use
these lines in symmetry constraints and
Tool symmetry tools so clict the
Symmetry constraint that's there that
image will be out so we need to click
the Bas plane and change the Y and put
the image back I'm pressing the up and
down arrows by the way to put because we
don't know how much to P this so we're
going to use the other sketch just come
around to the other side bring this in
we're going to do some measurements
across here so let's get our
padding so well we can see that we need
to move this across I'm going to click
on side sketch side PL right click
transform and zoom out let's just move
this in line to there because we
measured from this sketch actually comes
from here to here so we have to be wary
of the width here as well so now that's
there let's take a measurement across
here using the measure tool and get this
measurement in which is this one 1.9 2
mm and we'll take this measurement as
well so the measure tool beware if you
click on the sketch and there because
you'll get the measurement going along
the plane of the sketch surface of the
sketch which we don't
want so let's delete that one and redo
that with the measure tool is here let's
come in and let's measure that 3.5 mm we
also need a height of this so measure
from this point all the way up to the
top
here 45.8 and we'll what the hell is
that thing that's my question what is
that bro bro
say what is that take the length of here
as well what is that for so we're going
measure here to here and that gives us a
length now we can start padding so let's
come down to the sketch this one here
and we'll pad that and we need to pad it
by 3.5 mm so 3 5 mm in the length and I
hit enter this is transparent at the
moment so transparency set on that body
that body look at the view and what
you'll see if I seeo that transparency
that's what you'll see so that is what
it should look like making sure that we
check back our image with the pad to
make sure we the right way it's quite
easy to get carried away and pad to
sketch this side rather than sketch this
side so that case and come around to
this side I'm going to hide the Bas
plane space and we're going to sketch to
here
ooh
[Music]
that's [__]
awesome dude that is sick all right I
want to watch this so let's get started
with the simpler one then we will move
on to this how we this B so let's move
on to the simpler one so here I have a
3D model of profiler so the first thing
before moving towards the animation work
space make sure that for realistic
animation make sure you have all your
effects up like analing ET and the
second thing the en normally en is and
the envirment and set which you use in
mod Works Space will also be applicable
in the animation workpace also so
personally my favorite is room process
provides a better reflection but this
now after the selection of the and just
go to the animation work space so here
it is so this is the your animation
timeline and each number here donates
notes particular second so before
starting anything make sure that your
timeline is set up to zero because
anything um I the timeline to the 8
Second and anything that I make changes
in the modeling work space even the SL
camera chain will be recorded if I just
play the timeline you can see that
there's a movement in the camera so
before making any changes if you want to
so just make sure your timeline is set
to zero so the next thing um suppose
that I want to make an animation of how
this profiler will look like when it is
loota and I want to make a video of 10
seconds so let's click on the timeline
to 10 second now go to your browsers
window click on component so here's the
profer right click on this and click on
transform component you can also click
from from here transform
the
for
your boy just
got hey
what do I have to
confirm oh no yeah it it fixed
itself
okay this thing also does not have a
command
pallet
wait what if I wanted
uh
so is the whole thing about constraints
I don't really
know
can I just fix the whole
thing
okay can I sketch onto that
face
oh nice okay I think I'm getting
it okay now if I
do
for
holy
[__] I just want to reverse the oh
reverse Zoom Direction
perfect
for
how do I change
it
I guess you just put it in there like
that
I'm going to delete
everything the
[__] control a bro I want to delete
everything control new [__] it boom boom
two point Rec rectangle centered
rectangle
boom 50
mm by 100
mm
oh [__]
that okay I can just drag this
around and I can change this or not
okay
is it
fixed
what is
that is that just a little icon that
says what the constraint is what is that
what is
that
yeah see that's not what you want you
don't want coincidence you
want you don't want that
either
you want distance what what is the
consist the same
thing
what is it actually
called
[Music]
um it
the
h
for
okay wait but I didn't see where to
actually do it okay so we're going to go
b
no okay I guess we have to do this
oh why didn't I see
that
people that use control y instead of
control shift Z are
dumb
for
I don't get
it
for
yeah Lego break to day number one of
learn Fusion 360 in 30 days I'm Kevin
Kennedy and today we'll look at how to
create a 2d sketch the extrude feature
how to make an object Hollow and a
rectangular pattern feature to start
select the show data panel icon in the
upper left corner you'll access your
designs and manage projects in the data
panel I encourage you to start with good
habits by creating a new project name
this learn Fusion 360 in 30 days double
click on a project to open it notice we
can also create folders to organize our
project files for example I'll make a
new folder titled day number one hyen
toy block for your convenience I record
all tutorials with Fusion 360's default
settings you can make sure your settings
are set to the defaults by selecting
your profile and preferences then select
a restore defaults button in the lower
left of the dialogue if restore defaults
is grayed out then you're all set the
last thing we'll want to do is set our
default units I'll be using millimeters
for each tutorial in the series unless
stated otherwise on the left side you
will find default units for the
different workspaces we'll select design
and make sure this is set to millim note
that this sets the default unit for
every new design file however you can
change units of individual files at any
time be sure to select apply to save the
changes before closing the dialogue the
units of an individual file are found in
the fusion 360 browser toggle open the
document set folder and select change
active units select your desired units
and notice you can also set the chosen
units as the
default organized or toy block you'll
want to create a new component each time
you start a new part this will help keep
all of our 2D sketches and 3D bodies
organized I'll discuss more details on
components throughout the course for now
it'll simply help keep our files
organized and easier to manage find the
assemble drop down and select new
component our type will always be
standard unless we're working with sheet
metal we'll cover sheet metal components
in another lesson as well as some of the
other options type out the desired part
name such as 2 by8 block once complete
select okay notice our component is now
listed in the fusion 360 browser for
most Fusion 360 workflows you'll start
by creating a two-dimensional sketch
that is turned into a threedimensional
body we'll start new 2D sketches with
the create sketch feature located in the
toolbar or the create menu notice we're
then prompted to select one of the three
origin planes these origin planes
correspond to our X Y and Z axis I
recommend selecting the plane based on
how the object is sitting we're going to
draw the length in WID of the block so
we'll select the bottom XY origin plane
watch closely as I select the plane
first you'll see that our view is
automatically reoriented to look
directly at the sketch this is because
it's generally a best practice to sketch
in an orthographic or straight on view
you'll also see that we now have a
sketch tab in the toolbar the sketch
tools are contextual and will only
appear while in an active sketch
environment we can now select a twoo
rectangle tool once active we'll start
by selecting the origin Point always
start at the origin as this will help us
fully Define our sketch with constraints
and dimensions we'll be discussing this
best practice in more detail throughout
the course notice the two diens di
inputs appear as I drag out my mouse
cursor we can select the tab key on our
keyboard to switch between inputs nice
to simplify things I'll provide you with
dimensions for each project we'll type
out 15.8 mm for the width of the block
hit the Tab Key which will lock the
dimension in place and then type out
31.8 mm for the length we can then click
with the mouse to place the rectangle in
the desired Direction with this
particular design the direction does not
matter if we toggle open our component
in the browser you'll find it has a
sketches folder notice this includes the
sketch we just created we're now ready
to turn this 2D sketch into a 3D body to
make it threedimensional we'll use the
extrude command which is one of the most
utilized commands in the designed
workspace you can activate extrude from
the toolbar create menu of the solid tab
or by hitting the keyboard shortcut
letter e as an echo after activating the
extr command you'll be prompted to
select any close sketch profiles that
you would like to add or remove
thickness Fusion 360 will automatically
select the sketch if we only have one
we'll Define the height as 9.6 mm notice
this can be done in the canvas or the
extrude dialog I'll go ahead and hit the
home icon in the upper right hand corner
located just to the left of the view
Cube selecting home will give us a 3D
view of our model showing us the 9.6 mm
thickness let's select okay to confirm
the extrude notice our 3D body is now
listed in our component everything is
nicely organized and we can toggle the
visibility of any of these at any time
you'll also find our actions are being
recorded in the parametric timeline at
the bottom of your screen this allows us
to go back and edit or delete features
at any time at this point we must save
our work Fusion 360 is cloudbased which
simply means your files are stored on
AES servers instead of your local
computer we'll still want to select the
save icon in the applications bar you
can then Define both the file name and
the location of the file or where it in
the data panel selecting the Carro icon
will allow you to navigate through your
projects and
folders select save and watch what
happens to the design tab you'll see the
name of the file and the version number
will appear in the design tab we'll talk
about versioning in another lesson let's
go ahead and finish off the toy block
with the circles on top we'll start by
drawing a 2d circle on the top once
again we'll use create sketch to start a
new 2D sketch this time we'll select the
top cleaner face of the block select the
center diameter circle or use the
keyboard shortcut letter c as in Charlie
you'll select once to place the center
of the circle not worrying about where
you select we can then Define the
diameter as 5 mm and select again to
place the circle notice each sketch
command remains active until you press
the Escape key at this point our Circle
can still move freely if we select and
drag it we'll use sketch Dimensions to
limit its degrees of freedom select a
dimension tool in the toolbar we'll
select the center of the circle and then
the top edge of the rectangle notice as
I drag out dim select again to place the
dimension and then Define its value as
3.9 mm let's repeat the previous steps
in the other direction also entering 3.9
mm for the
distance at this point we could manually
draw all of the other circles but it
would be much more efficient to use the
rectangular pattern feature it's
important to note that Fusion 360 has
both a sketch rectangular pattern
feature and a solid modeling rectangular
pattern feature I recommend avoiding the
sketch one at all cost keeping our
sketches simple will make it much easier
to have a fully parametric model we'll
instead activate the extrude command
with the shortcut letter e I'll select
the circle and Define the distance as
1.7 mm before clicking okay notice the
operation is set to join this means this
new extrude will join the existing 3D
body
we can now use the solid modeling
rectangular pattern feature located in
the tool or create drop down the pattern
type will determine what we can choose
to pattern a defaulted to faces but
we'll want to change this to features
features will allow us to select the
extrude feature in the parametric
timeline you'll notice the cylinder
turns blue when it's selected switch to
the direction selector where we'll
select two edges to Def feature in the
parametric timeline you'll notice the
cylinder turns blue when it's selected
switch to the direction selector where
we'll select two edges to define the
directions for the pattern select both
edges of the block notice we have two
directional arrows on the model drag
each one to get the pattern started
dragging them first helps ensure we're
heading in the right direction before
defining the numbers in the dialogue for
the length I'll type 24 mm for the
distance with a quantity of four the
second direction will be a quantity of
two with a distance of 8 mm note that
you may need to add or remove the minus
symbol to keep the pattern in the right
direction if the preview looks correct
then we're all set and can click okay if
yours is off double check the distance
type is set to extent we'll discuss that
more in additional lessons we're just
about done with our toy block if you use
the view Cube to look at the bottom
you'll see that we still have a solid
block we can use the shell command to
out solid 3D bodies shell lives in the
modifi menu or the toolbar we can select
faces or bodies which determine how the
object is hollowed out because we want
to leave the outer four walls we'll
select only the bottom face of the 3D
body we then Define the inside thickness
which is 1.49 MM shell traces the
outside walls of design and applies our
defined thickness that is why you'll see
the inside of our cylinders were
included click okay to confirm the shell
lastly we'll draw the three Center
columns at the bottom of the block wait
what why did
that
I don't understand why those holes are
there Define thickness that is why you
see the inside of our cylinders were
included click okay to confirm the shell
you'll see the inside thickness which is
1.49 MM shell traces the outside walls
of the design and applies our defined
thickness that is why you'll see the
inside of our cylinders were included
click okay to confirm the shell lastly
columns at the bottom of the block you
can also create new sketches by right
clicking on a planer face Follow by cre
create
sketch let's activate the line command
from the toolbar we'll start by
selecting the construction option in the
sketch palet as this line is for
reference purposes only then because
we're looking at an orthographic
straight on view you'll find we can
reference some of the existing geometry
referencing our model's geometry will
not work if you look at the model from
an angle to create this line I will move
my mouse cursor over these recess
circles you'll see that it lets us snap
into their Center Point then I'll draw
this line across to the other side
snapping into the other Center Point
press the Escape key to clear the line
command with a center diameter circle
now have a reference line to find the
midpoint be sure to turn off the
construction option in the dialog box or
by pressing the keyboard shortcut letter
X find the midpoint where the triangle
glyph appears after we place the circle
we can Define the diameter as 6.3 mm as
an alternative to the Shell command
sometimes we may want to extrude an
object with two defined walls we can use
the offset sketch tool from the toolbar
select the circle and type out 1 mm for
the offset distance flip the circle to
make sure it's on the inside we can now
use extrude to turn the cylinder into a
3D body let's define the distance as 8
.1
mm once again let's use the rectangular
pattern feature the pattern type should
be set to Features as we used that last
select the latest extrude in the
timeline below select the edge for the
direction I'll type three for the
quantity and 16 mm for the distance and
click okay if you now revolve the toy
block around you'll see that we have
completed the overall
shape the last thing we'll want to do is
add a fillet or rounded edges to some of
the sharp edges activate the fillet
command from the modified drop down list
or by selecting the keyboard shortcut
letter f as in Fox Dr select the edges
or faces to fill it and add a fill it of
Z .2 mm by typing that out in the dialog
box be sure to save your design once
you're finished notice it will prompt
you to add a version description with a
version number something like finish the
toy block will be helpful you'll see the
ver in your design tab I'll see you in
the next lesson where we'll look at 3D
modeling a glass soda bottle all right
let's try to do this
[__] wait hold on [__] it
[__] oh symol new component
standard
Lego okay now we create a sketch
here
rectangle here and then
is
50 by
100 I don't remember
we beion inputs appear here as I drag
out my to 15 the dimension in place and
then type out
318m for
the okay then he extruded open our
component in the browser you'll find it
has a sketches folder notice this
includes the sketch we just created true
command you'll be prompted to select any
Clos sketch profiles that you would like
to add or remove thickness Vision 360
will automatically select the sketch if
we only have one we'll Define the height
as 9.6 mm notice this to be done in the
canvas or the true dialog I'll go ahead
and hit the home icon in the upper right
hand corner located just to the left of
the vibe selecting home will give us a
3D view of our model showing us the 9.6
mm thickness let's select okay to confir
the exude notice our 3D body is now
listed in our component everything is
nicely organized we can talk about the
visibility of any of these at any time
you'll also find our actions are being
recorded in parametri Timeline at the
bottom of your screen this allows us to
go back and edit or delete features at
any time at this point we must save our
work fion 360 is cloud-based which
simply means your files are stored on
outes servers instead of your local
computer we'll still want to select a
save icon in the applications SP you can
then Define both the file name and the
location of file let's go ahead and
finish off the toy block with the
circles on
top
the
[__] how big did he say that [__]
was
dude cat is
ridiculous we'll start by drawing a 2d
circle on the top once again we'll use
create
sketch this time we'll select the top
cleaner face of the block select Center
diameter circle or use the keyboard
shortcut that as in Charlie you'll
select once to place the center of the
circle not woring about where you select
we can then Define the diameter as 5 mm
and select again to place the circle
notice each sketch command remains
active until you press the Escape key at
this point our Circle can still move
freely if we select and drag it we'll
use sketch Dimensions to limit degrees
of freedom select the dimension tool in
the
toolbar
okay now how do I [__] change it
dude
edit
sketch
oh
okay
we then Define its value as 3.9
mm let's repeat the previous steps in
the other direction also entering 3.9 mm
for the distance wait wait wait wait
what mmct angle notice as I drag out
with my mouse we see a
dimension
okay kind of annoying select again to
place the dimension and then Define its
value as 3.9
mm let's repeat the previous steps in
the other direction also entering 3.9 mm
for the
distance at this point we could manually
draw all of the other circles but it
would be much more efficient to use a
rectangular pattern feature it's
important to note that Fusion 360 has
both a sketch rectangular pattern
feature and a solid modeling rectangular
pattern feature I recommend avoiding the
sketch one at all cost
pause keeping our sketches simple will
make it much easier to have a fully
parametric model we'll instead activate
the extr command with a shortcut letter
e I'll select the circle and Define the
distance as 1.7
[Music]
mm
how do you
[__] get it to rotate I don't
know before clicking okay notice the
operation is set to join this means this
new extrude will join the existing 3D
body we can now use the solid modeling
right hler pattern feature located in
the toolbar or create drop down the
pattern type will
determine what we can choose to pattern
it defaulted to faces but we'll want to
change this to features featur will
allow us to select the extrude feature
in the parametric timeline you'll notice
the cylinder turns blue when it's
selected switch to the direction
selector where we'll select two edges to
define the directions for the pattern
select both edges of the block notice we
have two directional arrows on the model
drag each one to get the pattern started
dragging them first helps ensure we're
heading in the right direction before
defining the numbers in the dialogue for
the length I'll type 24 mm for the
distance with a quantity of four the
second direction will be a quantity of
two with a distance of 8 mm note that
you may need to add or remove the minus
symbol to keep the pattern in the right
direction if the preview looks correct
then we're all set and can click okay if
yours is off double check the distance
type is set to extent we'll discuss that
more in additional lessons we're just
about done with our toy block if you use
the view Cube to look at the bottom
you'll see that we still have is solid
block we can use the shell command to
hollow out solid 3D bodies shell lives
in the modify menu or the
tool bar we can select faces or bodies
which determine how the object is
hollowed out because we want to leave
the outer four walls we'll select only
the bottom face of the 3D body we then
Define the inside thickness which is
1.49 mm shell traces the outside walls
of the design and applies our defined
thickness that is why you'll see the
inside of our cylinders were
included you can't do math in
these dude this this program is [__]
unusable what the
hell that's [__]
good
honestly that'd be so
cringe okay let me try
again
okay fine wait let's try this hold
on
that's so
stupid
dude look at freead bro freead is this
beautiful
software all right hold on okay we got
to sketch here make a
rectangle okay now I do this Boop
Boop okay now let's say 100 over wait
100 over two beautiful that just
worked well I mean that was actually the
equivalent of what did work in Fusion
360 so that's not fair um yeah shell
doesn't even exist so I guess I
shouldn't
complain all right [__] it um
solid uh
shell I don't understand why it did all
that
though
okay click okay to confirm the
shell lastly we'll draw the three Center
columns at the bottom of the block you
can also create new sketches by right
clicking on a planer face followed by
create
sketch
let's activate the line command from the
toolbar we'll start by selecting the
construction option in the sketch palet
as this line is for reference purposes
only then because we're looking at an
orthographic straight on view you'll
find we can reference some of the
existing geometry referencing our
model's geometry will not work if you
look at the model from an angle to
create this line I will move my mouse
cursor over these recess circles you'll
see that it lets a snap into their
Center Point then I'll draw this line
across to the other side snapping into
the other Center Point press the Escape
key to clear the line command wait I
think I missed
something click okay to confirm the
shell lastly we'll draw the three Center
columns at the bottom of the block you
can also create new sketches by right
clicking on a planer face followed by
create
sketch
no I don't want that one I want the one
below
it
let's activate the line command from the
toolbar we'll start by selecting
the the construction option in the
sketch pallet as this line is for
reference purposes only then because
we're
we're looking at an orthographic
straight on view you'll find we can
reference some of the existing geometry
referencing our model's geometry will
not work if you look at the model from
an angle to create this line I will move
my mouse cursor over these recess
circles you'll see that it lets us snap
into their Center Point then I'll draw
this line across to the other side
snapping into the other Center Point
press the Escape key to clear the line
command with a center diameter circle we
now have a reference line to find the
midpoint be sure to turn off the
construction option in the dialog box or
by pressing the keyboard shortcut letter
X find the mid point where the triangle
glyph appears after we place the circle
we can Define the diameter as 6.3 mm as
an alternative to the Shell command
sometimes we may want to extrude an
object with two defined walls we can use
the offset sketch tool from the toolbar
select the circle and type out 1 mm for
the offset distance flip the circle to
make sure it's on the inside we can now
use extrude to turn the cylinder into a
3D body let's define the distance as 8.1
mm select the circle and type out 1 mm
for the offset distance flip the circle
to make sure it's on the
inside we can now use extrude to turn
this cylinder into a 3D body let's
define the distance as 8.1
mm once again again let's use the
rectangular pattern feature the pattern
type should be set to Features as we
used that last select the latest extrude
in the timeline below select the edge
for the direction I'll type three for
the quantity and 16 mm for the distance
and click okay if you now revolve the
toy block around you'll see that we have
completed the overall
shape the last thing we'll want to do is
add a fillet or rounded edges to some of
the sharp edges
activate the fillet command from the
modified dropdown list or by selecting
the keyboard shortcut letter f as in
foxtrot select the edges or faces to
fillet and add a fillet of 0.2
mm into a 3D body let's define the
distance as 8.1
mm once again let's use the rectangular
pattern feature the pattern type should
be set to Features as we used that last
s the latest extrude in the timeline
below select the edge for the direction
oh I'll type three for the quantity and
16 mm for the distance and click okay if
you now revolve the toy block around
you'll see that we have completed the
overall
shape the last thing we'll want to do is
add a fillet or rounded edges to some of
the sharp edges activate the fillet
command from the modified dropdown list
or by selecting the keyboard shortcut
letter f as in Fox Trot
select the edges or faces to fill it and
add a fillet of 0.2 mm by typing that
out in the dialogue
box be sure to save your design once
you're finished notice it will prompt
you to add a version description with a
version number something like finish the
toy block will be helpful you'll see the
version number updates in your design
tab I'll see you in the next lesson
where we'll look at 3D modeling a glass
soda
bottle
[Music]
pretty
goodoo I don't know what I'm
doing it's a free form selection
tool
okay should I try to make this Lego
block in
here
bro
okay let's just start
over yeah heat it doesn't let me start
over Okay new
model part
design create a
sketch this
plane create a centered rectangle
here I forgot the dimensions already
no
bro
h
but I want
damn how do you get the size of
it
maybe I have to do
this
okay
9.6 is there a way to make patterns in
in this thing there's
macros the Lego is harder to build uh
uh okay let's just do this how I know
how how big was it um oh wait we [__]
this
up
for
is that for real
how I deselect this
thing
[__] oh
wait [__] oh
yeah wait
what
let's go back in that
sketch oh beautiful that's actually
hype okay now we
want to be uh
h
wait
what oh yeah
okay no I only want the dot
though no how do you get the
dot wait but if I do this then if I do
this
oh okay so I
go no that see that didn't do what I
wanted
I want to
go then I'm going to go
H then I'm going to go boom
[Music]
boom
h
what what what was that
distance
is that to
the dude I don't [__]
know let me go back to this
thing the rectangular pattern oh 3.9
okay oh we can do
this
all did I just delete what I literally
just
added okay
well tangular
pattern
recab we will use the linear pattern in
this
sketch and then we will make a single
cut of this
holes okay or we can make a single holes
or two holes and then we
can pattern it rectangular pattern so we
we can do in both the ways so whole size
is 15 so I will select on this phas and
I will say sketch so if you see here if
you see here axis is passing through
from here to here like this I draw
clearly so axis is going from here
and from this mid of this split okay so
this Dimension and this Dimension will
be symmetric and here whole position is
25 from the ede and from this is from
this age and here is a it should be
symmetric so here is 60 so we have all
positions of the hole so let's make it
so I will select hole and I will draw
the hole and position it will be it is
150 now let me clear my mark up here so
here it is total plate is 200 that is
the 50 so from age it will be 25 so I
will project my these two edges one
horizontal and one vertical and I will
select this point and I will select this
point and I will give my horizontal
dimension of 25 and and and from Center
it would be 30 so I switch to the here
wif frame so that I can see my origin
Point here so I will move my Dimension
here so this Dimension is 60 so I will
select this point and this point and I
will say vertical Dimension and I will
say 30 and whole diameter size is 15 so
I will select the whole and give my
diameter of 15 okay same way I can draw
from the other side so we have four
holes here it is 50 so 25
25 and this is the 25 so if we minus
this from 100 so it is 50 5050 50 Okay
so so now we will use the linear pattern
in the Skech so we will select this hole
and click on this icon which is a
rectangular AR pattern and here equal
vertical horizontal spacing uncheck this
because if you check this then it will
consider horizontal and vertical
Dimension spacing equal but in this case
our horizontal and vertical spacing is
not same because hold to whole here is
60 and between horizontal whole is 25 so
uncheck this unequal vertical spacing
number of column we wants two so this is
the this is the one column two column
and number of rows we want four 1 2 3 4
okay so now we will select okay so once
you uh say okay so it will it will show
you a line and you can also find that
approximate dimension so here when I
move my this line This approximate
Dimension change in the blue color so if
I say here my Dimension is 60 so I will
move my line very close to 60 say I I'm
on 65 so I will say okay so if you see
here it make a rectangular pattern now
we can change the dimensions so this is
the 60 Dimension this is the vertical
side say 60 and angle is 90 okay and
this is the vertical spacing is 60 but
horizontal spacing is 25 so I will say
25 sorry horizontal spacing is 50 so I
will say 50 and I can move this
Dimension like this like this and this
so this is how we can uh use the
rectangular pattern of the skage now our
skage is fully constrained so we will
cross our major Dimension so this is 60
50 and whole dimension so everything
looks fine now we will close it and we
will go to the flat lines and we will
create our whole features here and the
whole in whole popup
window and
dimension
nice
how do I dude I'm
finished I'm finished I don't want
it
okay
columns four rows
two I think we do want that
though
dude holy [__] how do you get rid of
this
what is the
radius
oh okay
nice what was that it was 3.9 right
[__]
what I wish you could click and drag
this
thing
okay how do you constrain this thing KO
right
uh
did we get
it
[__] oh
nice okay so what if we just
did
did it
work nice wait but that's not right it's
uh constrained diameter
right
what the actual
[__]
okay I don't know if that's
right but in any
case um what we need to
do
stop
is there a hotkey for
pan I like how it looks though
but if I'm looking at it sideways I just
want to know the height of this
thing it's really [__]
annoying
fine oh these are five
okay wait hold
on and then their
height
feature fully parametric I'll select the
okay the existing feature located in the
toolbar okay so now that we're fully
constrained
we can
pad what was it
1.5 and
then can we just
select
ah
I actually Wonder
like there's got to be an easier way to
champer all of these
things
[__]
looking pretty good but we need to do
the
underside
what is that called
shell
for
oh
whoa but now there's no way that we
can yeah I don't even care if that's
wrong
[Music]
B
for
this looks so
good that's tall
enough all right so how do I do this
last
step
[Music]
oh really he's going to do it that
way
linear
parameter okay pretty
good just get that music back
on bro why does he sound like he an
Indiana Jones
though
[Music]
that is so
silly D sh the
[Music]
[__] I can't I can't stand that that is
C that is God awful wait how did
he oh I see
okay yeah you don't have to do it by the
midpoint does he do another inscribed
Circle how does he do
it yeah
okay
yeah great
video not
nice get more
water that's pretty good oh does he
champ for the insides or fet what is he
doing
what is that
for now you know what it would be really
cool is if I took my if I catted out
some of
my custom Kad footprint things and then
inserted the models I feel like that
would be pretty cool cuz then you're
like all right now I know what I'm doing
I'm connecting it I'm I'm putting it all
to
together honestly I feel
like like this looks so good but it's
like at what cost you
know oh it just looks so so good
though um all right but now oh
animation
oo damn
bro it looks so good some of the
dimensions kind of look wrong but it
looks so
good um
wow generate tool path strategies for
the design to be fabricated now that's
[__]
cool additiv so they have a slicer or
something
[Music]
no okay well I'll have to learn how that
works this is going to be a whole
Milling turning
additive oh this is for like a lathe
dude see this is so [__] cool
man machine
Builder what does that even
mean dude this program is
sweet wait I want to do a
simulation static stress modal frequency
dude let's
go
that is so cool I want to do some of the
electronics how do I how do I do uh what
is their thing
called
I saw like a PCB
thing what is it called
again what is that
called
this is what I want air quote fidget
spinner now let's do
this I don't
know
what the [__] is taking so
[Music]
long
whoa
whoa this is [__] cool
man okay but wait but how do they do the
PCB design I want to see the PCB
design
or they bought eagle or
something wait these are all the things
that are in
use or is this just everything I want to
just download
everything command line mode
whoa
do they have an auto routing oh you know
they have an auto
routing go
here un
route um what is
the what is it
called
I want a 3D view of
it I mean that is really really freaking
cool
for
should I try
[Music]
to
ooh I wonder how good their simulation
is
the [__] does any of this
mean
hello oh that's random it just brings
you to
there
for
does that say it has spice model in
it
okay I rotate
them
that's so [__]
dumb their snapping is pretty good I
like
that
[Music]
I hate that sound so [__]
much
for
damn Fusion 360 is
badass I mean this thing is so [__]
cool
I wonder if it has an auto router in
it oh
yeah that's [__] cool
man I mean this is a real [__]
boor how do you move I ha
[Music]
oh that
sound just drives me
inside I just wish I could delete that
sound throughout the
whole
OS so
stupid
for
e
all
right info group is
empty I don't I don't want to do
that just shut the [__] up how about
that no I don't want
all
connector this means nothing to
me 1 by 13 oh here we go one we have a 1
by3 I doubt
it oh nice
perfect okay so
now uh but we actually only
need let me look I forgot I in this we
only need power and
[Music]
ground
let's see how did I do it I don't even
remember uh yeah okay we actually had
four one for each
LED right
right
okay so let's delete
that right right okay so now if I want
to do this no to
wait oh it's not X it's R
right there we
go dude I don't want Bend I
want do that
okay so let me think about
this how do I rotate this
thing
it doesn't [__] update the
preview dude what is going on
here okay it just doesn't even
[Music]
work that is going to kill
me it's almost un I'm just going to mute
it I can't I can't with that stupid
[__] sound now how do I move this
thing I just want to move move
it whatever who cares why am I being
such a
dumbass I guess there must be some
anchor that lets
you there's like a little Crosshair in
here somewhere oh okay so this is how
you move it you got to find that thing
isn't that
nice
all right so here's what we're going to
do we're just going to put them over
here okay paste
paste okay now we need and I the thing
is I didn't even see an
LED let just go through them oh
wait oh that's not right oh wait no is
that what it is for empty it needs to
have two pins
this is [__] insane they got these
seven segment displays but they don't
have wait hold
on what is this
smt I hate these names dude oh yeah 1209
okay well that's how you
know I still think that's [__]
started no through hole components are
we for real here
guys there must be a way to get
more
okay
whatever all right let's go to the LED
Library you got to be
joking
there this is how you know that eagle
was for people
that you
know
um work in industry and aren't hobbyists
cuz hobbyists don't have surface mount
LEDs
oh we need a
ground
[Music]
um
for
I got a lot of stuff in
there right angle through hole I think
that's through hole but it doesn't have
a 3D model so I can't be sure
okay let's use their stupid
[__]
for
I don't like how Fusion pans I don't I
don't like
it
for
does it say which one goes to ground
there we
go dude I'm I'm so [__] pissed with
this rotate thing there has to be
a
rotate there's no hot key to do do
it and it doesn't auto
update so you can't see if it's
right
this [__] is
unusable
oh I think that's pretty
stupid
hello oh I
see
[Music]
no
okay
I [__] that
up
no
wait let's see if the auto router does
[Music]
it select signals or click go to
start I don't I don't see a [__] go
button
[__]
there we
go
nice
dude that is [__] nice
bro wait but this is just
wrong this connector makes no
sense
unless no yeah that connector makes no
sense but damn look at how high quality
these models
are
are there really not hot keys to get pan
I
just I don't like their defaults
here okay so let's see what happens if I
go
here
oh my God where even is it I'm
lost their panning is so
bad no bro I want to move a group of
things there we
go does
that
[Music]
no
okay so there are traces through this
whole thing but what we want to do
here we need to rotate it
of course it doesn't
[Music]
work I kind of want to simulate it
though I feel like that is where this
thing will be like really [__]
good
l
hello I'm clicking on
[Music]
you
wait did I [__] everything
up this one goes
here this oh
[Music]
great
okay
nice
[Music]
damn this was a 4our
stream I didn't even do
anything
that's cool you have all of your sketch
tools built in
there
for
okay wait but I want to try some of the
sexy stuff like
um is that
true I bet that's just like a constant
how are they out of sync I literally
just did
it I love that every save you have to be
bothered by a dialogue
box some of this [__] is
cringe
but it's
good I want to see
this
[Music]
products are getting smarter smaller
and more complex translate to designers
require more insights into PCB
performance to meet these demands the
standard rules of electronic designs can
no longer apply your next connected
invention will require that high-speed
traces meet specific criteria for your
components to operate correctly Fusion
360 signal Integrity extension powered
by anes empowers Engineers to access the
electromagnetic analysis capabilities
that allow them to inspect and resolve
issues with signal performance early in
the routing design pH see how changes to
layer properties defining polygon
reference layers or changing Trace
withth affect your signal Integrity
impedance time delay resistance
inductance capacitance and more the easy
to use interface provides quick visual
feedback on design changes to help
improve product compliance and
performance reduce costly physical PCB
test dude the way this guy's talking is
driving me nuts reduce
the you know just like
relax guys we did some really cool stuff
here's what we did you don't need to put
on a clown
nose
um
this is written by an insane person an
OB b++ output requirements do not export
silk screen solder mask Pace mask avoid
true type font text because it can cause
loading errors export all signal
dialectric drill and rope
layers export all ecad data component
layers it's like who is this who is
writing this a
monkey
like this is clearly developer
documentation God
damn okay but what I want to
do is one of those cool things where
it like simulates let me go back to
to
okay so how do I do the
simulation
for
welcome on lesson
I'm so for today's presentation for
today's free on lesson we are going to
focus
on uh electronic pings so if you're not
sure about our topics so you can go to
our website so systems.com so we did
publish a lot of topics here okay don't
forget also to
join your Zoom or if you also join us
focus on the production side okay you
want to do a CNC you want to do a laser
cutting okay so you can also use this
bundle okay okay you can link between
each other so AutoCAD electrical can
link with inventor okay from which is
you need to purchase separately from
your
Fusion okay these things are also
included injection moding even
simulation shape
optimization and also others kind of
simulation while for the cooling and for
the electronic cooling at this moment
are still available in the default fion
system on extension they G they linked
to clearly what was a video and then
just gave me a bunch of [__] nonsense
okay if you are creating the static
stress you can do the solve you can
solve the uh simulation either using
local or CL okay for our Focus today we
want to do
electron and you know what the bar is
way higher for not free and open source
software you know what I mean like if
you guys are going to charge a bunch of
[__] money I'm going to
complain I have this for free anyway but
you know what I'm
saying
test test for some reason like I lo I
watched the VOD and the the audio was
never delayed but OBS has this thing
where it's delaying the the
monitor uh okay yeah show me some cool
videos Okay so this will be the example
for Fusion 360 cooling study okay what
we can study basically here okay we can
study on the load case okay if you
already set the load okay where is the
area that has a critical risk and where
is the area that you insert the air flow
okay you can study in here okay but you
need to aware that thisal cooling stud
currently are is a prev Mone on
this okay so first first what we need to
do set so we need to do set we want to
change okay I can't I can't I can't tell
me what to
do maybe we should just go with
this
for
from 5 years ago and support file once
the file is open save it to your project
with the model open in Fusion 360 you
can see that there are some additional
components a screw and a cap these two
components are not going to be valuable
in the analysis process we'll start the
analysis process by switching to the
simulation workspace when switching to
the workpace you'll need to select the
type of study you'll be running in this
case select static stress and then pick
create
study with the type of study selected
you can then go to the simplify
workspace expand the model components
find the screw and the cap and delete
them from the simulation model leaving
only the rail support when this is done
you can select finish simplify this will
return you back to the simulation
workpace where you can go under
materials and select study materials the
model was created with the default steel
material you can use the pull down to
switch the material to
aluminum
all right yeah let's make it
steel this device will be held in place
by the screw pressing it up against the
wall so the friction with the wall will
be the primary support under the
constraints pull down Select Structural
constraints and then once the dialog
opens you'll leave the type as fixed and
then select the back rim of the rail
support
with that selected now it's time to
place the load under the load SP down
there are several different load types
in this case you'll use a structural
load and you use a force you'll then
select the face that will rest on
the
h
for
e
does this thing have any plans of
finishing I mean come
on what are we doing
here
holy [__] how long does this [__]
take no
nice
oh damn what's up man or a woman I don't
know I've never use
Fusion here let's see what the heck it
did I don't even know what it did
um oh wait it did it caved
in that's so
sick that is really
cool okay I want to uh I want to rerun
it with
[Music]
um
wait can't I just do the
same I did 1,000 Newtons last time we're
going to do 10,000 Newtons let's run it
again oh is it running in the cloud
oh
cool
that's why it's like jumps to 30% and
then
whatever all right I want to do the cool
the electronics cooling one
though
mhm static simulations are a great
introduction to the benefits of finite
element analysis they're simple to set
up quick to return results and because
of this they're sometimes included free
with other mechanical design tools
unless of course you want to simulate
more than than a single body that's not
the case in Fusion 360 and it never has
been by performing linear static
simulations on your multibody designs
and assemblies you'll be able to answer
questions about the displacements
stresses and other effects resulting
from static loads on oh that's sick
intereting the results is Made Simple
with exaggerated displacements
animations and Powerful interrogation
tools with the insights gain be
confident in the direction you take your
design and in its real world performance
all this and More in Fusion
360 before running any simulations it's
common practice to remove cosmetic
details things like part numbers logos
threads and other small details that
don't significantly contribute to the
strength of a part but alternatively can
cause severe inefficiency for
simulations due to increased element
counts with the simplifi workspace in
Fusion 360 users are provided
specialized tools to prepare models for
simulations and remove these cosmetic
details with no time wasted wait so can
I take three
LED wait let's see
my Lego is going to get 10,000 Newtons
up the [__]
ass I hate how you can't rotate around
it that's pretty cool little piece of
art hm
wait that's the actual
deformation it doesn't even deform under
10,000
Newtons all right I don't know what the
[__] I'm talking about how do I simulate
a
circuit
dude these [__] webinars bro they're
so
[Music]
cringe this is the problem with these
companies dude they don't have
personalities who are like people they
have like fcking suits to you at all um
you're familiar with the idea of a
thermal simulation okay perfect this is
exactly the kind of thing that I want to
see example for use for converting a
nons spice schematic to a spice
schematic all right so we're going to
have to [__] sit through that all
right I'm going to take a piss and then
we're going to watch that
[__]
for
all
right
[Music]
um
right sh screen let me know if you guys
can see
it can everyone see
it check check two sorry about that I
was looking for the but I apologize for
that yeah your your screen um seems to
be working just fine thank you excellent
okay so let's go ahead and get started
with what we planning for today's video
it's cool they live streamed it
though like at least there's someone
open most of you may be watching in this
live stream are are from a mechanical
background so the concept of simulation
is not alien to you at all um you're
familiar with the idea of a thermal
simulation load simulations things like
that so in electronics simulation
fulfills a similar role it's basically
the idea is to verify the Integrity of
design before you commit to
manufacturing and obviously being able
to do so quickly and cheaply speeds up
the design cycle and also minimizes the
need to respin your designs so it's in
your best interest to learn to have an
idea of what spice simulation is and
what it does so spice is an acronym it
basically stands for simulation program
with integrated circuit emphasis okay so
the idea is that by setting up a net
list the program runs through it does
the math and gives you the waveforms for
each of the nodes that was originally
developed by Berkeley and every spice or
circuit simulator you're run into today
is for the most part a derivative of the
work that was done in Berkeley so
everything has kind of built on that
engine that engine over time is matured
and everyone's just kind of put their
own gooey on top of it um it's very
mature it's well understood the
differences you're going to see in
usability are pretty much exclusively
due to the interface implementations of
those who I feel like their spice is
probably better than K how to work with
the spice engine inside but they're
probably still using it actually can we
see
[Music]
modim let's see open source
licenses Fusion
360 let's see if we can find that
out sometimes sometimes software has to
list their
dependency
licenses and I feel like K or Fusion 360
probably has to list that somewhere but
they probably make it really right
down right like it's probably in here
cuz let's
see oh yeah see there you go Proto buff
that's exactly what I was talking about
all right how do we get the whole thing
control a let's just like look through
this um
[Music]
oh my god oh no never
mind all right let's go to the
top
stb no
way cool
QT wow Auto dis is written in
QT pretty
cool oh wow wait hold
on pretty
cool autois
Forks neat oh we're finding out some
things about how Auto desk works that's
neat log for
C+ open SSL
obviously Jon SCH A to B I don't know
what that is
Razor
boost a razor might be a uh what is
no no no
no could
[Music]
be I have a feeling it's like a linear
algebra thing though I don't
know let's look at what this license
is cuz boost is a C++ light is
a
maybe it's not maybe it's just a whole
bunch of random
[__] Dom element type something for
something
AMD I don't know Dom utils FFM Peg
interesting I love looking at this stuff
this stuff is so
interesting Apple web kit lib PNG
MZ
JS math Colonel Library oh
yeah
[Music]
Li curl you know it three.js dude isn't
this like Mr doob's
work oh no I'm thinking of something
else no it is that's so funny Mr Dube
gets used in the making of
uh
that's too
funny open CV
naturally I don't know what this stuff
is oh wow NASA makes this what is
this
oh wow so they actually are using this
stress analyses from NASA pretty
cool
computational
linear
solver let's go back we're not even all
the way through this thing oh
python
let's see
uh all right I'm I'm pretty I'm pretty
close to being done with this
thing see if there's anything J
query bunch of random [__]
Hawk
react XD
Bros XD Bros
wow there's a ton of [__] packages in
this
list I'm going to go eat some sushi I'm
going to be right
back wow look at all these
libraries pretty neat I'm glad that we
were able to find that cuz yeah I feel
like there must be a law that people
have to State their they you know
whatever you need to give
attribution
okay
for
cool cool
[Music]
select the parallel sparse iterative
solver
for
this is the whole
project oh I see what that is
okay
okay let's watch that stupid
video to you and then we're going to go
to some Advanced examples and the idea
is just to give you a taste of what's
possible if you know what's available to
you then you can see how to apply to
your specific circumstances so right now
I have the schematic this is a very
simple example and the idea is that it
comes in with no spice Association at
all and what we're going to do in the
first part of this webinar is basically
do the association so what I'm going to
do right now is I'm going to close my
control panel that way it's not in the
way okay and what we can do is a really
nice way to do it you especially in the
circuit this one is you can just select
everything and then you can right click
and select add model and there'll come
up with this message let you know that
the ground symbols because they're named
ground the engine is intelligent enough
to know that you probably want this to
be a node zero in the spice n so we can
say yes or no Etc actually before we do
this I want to show you something how do
you know that you don't have things
modeled well if you go here and you try
to set up a simulation first thing it's
going to do is that you know unma models
have been found all components must be
mapped in order to be able to simulate
so what we're going to do is again we
have the selection right click see
that's the problem SP convert I'm going
to say yes when I do this you're going
to see that these should already be
mapped it seems like it had a little
little issue because it did specify them
as ground but the the warning signs
didn't change okay but they are correct
they should be correct these did not
though so let's go ahead and adjust
these what I'm going to do is I'm going
to probably switch this to something
else but I guess if you're at this
level then you kind of don't
want a resistor or an inductor to fall
back to
Ideal you probably don't even want it to
fall back to non ideal you probably want
the exact one that you are
buying for
manufacturing manufacturing is a whole
[__] other ballpark it is
difficult oh
man I mean just imagine if you
bought 100,000 or something and because
you didn't [__] simulate the right
resistor
I don't know maybe that's like a red
herring or whatever maybe that's not a
real thing that
happens you may
ask
hm
[Music]
ooh the Galaxy Note is actually a good
one
yeah but like I wonder
if the resistor like can't you just
treat a resistor as
[Music]
ideal oh whatab you about hit me
oh Babi will wake you
up okay and then put so wait so let's
just try to do
that we have the schematic
open uh automate what does that even
mean
I don't know
validate missing spice for all of the
diodes Supply
one yeah right maybe we should just um
all right so let's go back to the video
cuz I think I I I Power Pin yeah and
that'll update
it okay there we go ground Power Pin
perfect so now these if you notice the
program takes a guess at what the
different parts
are uh R1 is a resistor so that was a
correct guess led1 is not an inductor so
we're going to switch that to a
diode and then G1 which is the battery
in this in this case we're going to
change that to a voltage source okay an
independent voltage
source now if you notice spice defines
certain cookie cutter type
components and that's what you see in
these dialogues it basically shows you
those cookie cutter type components that
you can pick
from if you have something that's maybe
a collection of these components or more
involved in those situations you'll pick
subcircuit and then when you go to map
you'll have to import a model okay for
this
simple demonstration today we won't have
anything that uses a subcircuit but if
you're working with integrated circuits
opamps digital logic Etc you're more
than likely going to be working with
subcircuits okay but for this example we
can just say independent volage
source so right now we have these three
components where we've selected the
spice type but they're not mapped so
we're going to select
map and because it's an intrinsic model
that's what it's called you'll see it in
the load model it's hard to see cuz
there's little contrast here but it is
intrinsic device no
model intrinsic devices are like I
mentioned those cookie cutter those
built-in models that spice understands
as a as a base model at the end of the
day there's a couple of differential
equations it's not that work however you
put it in so it's not really critical I
Chang this but just for semantics SYM
pin two to model pin two and symbol pin
one to model input one so I'll say okay
you'll see we get the check mark so it's
happy now for the diode we can do the
same thing we'll select map now in this
case even though it is an intrinsic
model there are many different types of
diodes and spice allows you to kind of
specify some very very detailed
parameters about the dial so you can put
in temperature coefficients you can put
in different PN Junction parameters
there's a lot of specificity into these
models most of the time you don't want
to make a spice model from scratch
you're better off using an existing
model or a model provided by the
manufacture of the component now
manufacturers are going to be very
interested in giving you good models
because that guarantees or helps you as
an engineer to use your compon
so your best bet is always if there's a
manufacturer supplied model to use it
it's a very important point if not you
can try Googling you'll usually maybe
find something like a university has
made for their students something like
that will usually work okay it's
important when you get one of these
models that you read the models will
usually carry some documentation about
the assumptions made in the model you
want to read them especially if you have
a very sophisticated application you
want to make sure that your model is
going to be able to simulate the aspects
that you're interested in okay because
again the quality of your result is
directly linked to the quality of the
model you use if you use a bad model
your results will be worthless so in
this case for this circuit I'm going to
use one of the built-in diode models
okay and I can grab it from multiple
places but I'm going to I find it easy
to just grab it from Eagle in my
application so I'm going go over here
we'll go to examples spice examples I'm
just going to grab this deod here Save
open I just like to remind everybody
that if you do have a fusion 360
subscription on Eagle is included for
free so you can download and have all
these resources from Eagle available to
you as well
correct with that said the model is
included in Fusion as well it's just a
bit more folder Ivy in order to find it
you have to go through more directories
and I I knew this one was off the top of
my head any so I went that so I'll click
okay so to say modif file found you want
to overwrite it I didn't change it so in
this case I can say yes verified say
okay you see cathode anode the anode is
where the positive input should be
cathode is where the negative input
should
be I'll say okay this one is now mapped
independent voltage source this one's an
intrinsic so this one is going to go
straight to mapping the pins make sure
positive is positive negative is
negative you say okay so at this point
all of the components in our simulation
have been moded so we can say done and
we have this here now one thing that's
good to know is in this case the
components are do have PCB uh packages
associated with them but if you look in
the NG spice simulation libraries that
shiper Fusion Electronics you'll see
that those actually don't have any
Footprints associated with them they
don't need to so they won't contribute
anything to the board so if you're going
to use straight from the simulation
library then just know that they're not
going to add anything to your board if
you're using if you already have your
design laid out and you have your
schematic then what you can usually do
is just by assigning models to the
components that are already on the
schematic you'll be able to use the same
schematic to Define both your layout and
to do the simulation so you kind of
don't have to do any additional work
there okay so everything here has been
modeled we do need to specify a value
for this regist because otherwise spice
won't know what to do with it so I
wonder if you can import let's see can I
import uh Fusion uh import Kad into
Fusion 360 Let's see can you do
it that was a long time
ago
whoa no no no I don't give a
[__] I know what that
is put 220 another way you can do it is
if you click on the part sorry with no
command active then you'll see that in
the inspector it shows up and you can
change the value here so there's
multiple ways to do it everybody finds a
way that prefer to flow with it and then
here remember that we turned this into
an independent voltage source so this
value doesn't help us at all for the
independent voltage source so I'm going
to right click and you'll see that you
have the option to do an analog Source
setup I'm going to go ahead and select
that DC value let's just say zero I
don't want it to have any DC value want
it to have a sinus soil transient
function so basically this is going to
Output a sinusoid stimulus into the
circuit that's cool offset it by one
volt I want its amplitude to be one volt
I'll put here 1
khz just 1K is fine because it already
knows it's KZ even though I can put it
see this is
this is one of the biggest problems I
feel like in all of electronic design is
like strings are used for numerical
values everywhere one U what the [__] is
a
u oh H said value and you'll see that
now this string is Meaningful to the
spice SYM okay so what we're going to do
now is I'm actually going to put a
couple of probes so that way we plot
this when we're
going so what I want to do first is
actually change the name of these nets
so I'm going to give this I'm going to
change the name to be be in that way
it's something
meaningful
[Music]
this hold on can we get that
video crazy
Korean uh
Starcraft streamer soy sauce come on
this has got
to
dude the fact
that oh you've got to be joking
bro wait actually I don't want to get
banned then hold
on yeah
I can't show this on stream but this
[__] is funny bro I mean it's not it's
horrible but like I remember watching
these like 10 years ago or
more oh
[__]
guys crazy all right so so
anyway
um come on get the [__] simulation pH
probe and if you look in the SP
simulation Library you can also put
current probe but for our purposes we're
just need the voltage probe I we'll
probe this net right here and this n
right here we'll say okay that's it now
we're ready to set up our simulation so
we click on the simulate button now you
notice there are several options here
okay op point is the simplest of all the
simulations what it will do is at DC in
other words there's no trans Behavior
whatsoever it will calculate the
voltages at all the nodes and it will
also calculate the current through any
independent sources so typically when
students run into circuits one classes
typically this is what they're doing
they're calculating the circuits
operating Point DC Suite would allow you
to select a parameter and variate and
see then how the circuit responds so DC
sweep basically Builds on operating
Point by running the operating Point
simulation multiple times at each of the
sweep values with AC sweep we now start
to get into more sophisticated analysis
AC swe will basically put in a Cota
waveform and it will sweep it across a
range of frequencies that you specify
and this is really useful when analyzing
filters audio circuitry anything that
has any type of frequency dependent
Behavior you can analyze using suite and
then finally we have a transing
simulation so whereas an AC s works in
the frequency domain a transing
simulation is working in time domain is
actually seeing how the circuit develops
in response to a stimulus over time so
trans you we have maximum we have the
number of points so basically whatever
range we put is basically going to split
up into those points if it notices an
area where the behavior is changing
quickly it will add in more points
that's why we have a maximum number of
points here and the idea of that is to
improve resolution whenever you have a
lot of changes in a certain range of
time temperature is used when you have
the circuit temperature coefficients so
for example if you're doing anything
like Auto or Aeros space your circuit
are going to be subjected to different
temperature ranges so 25 is something
you can consider maybe a little bit
above room temperature okay sometime
some people consider room temperature
20 C others pick 25 either one is okay
90% of the time if you're dealing with
circuit are going to be in harsh
environments then you adjust the
temperature because some components do
have temperature related variances
depending on uh depending on how you set
up the simulation okay so for example
resistor does a heat up if I call
correctly they will tend to increase in
your distance other components will have
positive temperature per so something
like a mosat a mosat typically what
happens is temperature increases the
resistance increases and that limits the
flow of current through them which is
actually a good behavior so it all
depends on on the circuit that you're
working with when in Out just know 90%
of the time it's fine to leave at 25C
so in this case I set up the circuit
this voltage source is going to be
putting a sine wave into the circuit and
we're going to see how the circuit
behaves okay one thing that we typically
recommend with simulation if you're
doing like transient behavior of things
that oscillate or that are being
subjected to an oscillatory stimulus is
to look for about 5 to 10 Cycles if you
have a long time range what can happen
is it can be difficult for the
simulation to converge and to give so
typically you want set your start and
end time such that maybe you avoid any
initial trans stter behavior and then in
that range you have five to 10 Cycles so
to have a 1 khz waveform every cycle is
one millisecond that's why I started at
10 and I ended at 15 in advance you
shouldn't tamper with it most of the
time in advance you have all these
parameters that control how the
simulator tries to arrive at a solution
so these are you really don't want to
mess with they run at really low
tolerances - 12 -5 or like the Limit Oh
wait real to minus three what is change
tall
method trap oh trapezoidal integration
dude that I think that's like a second
order method cringe that you may have to
touch and play with every once while you
are Shunk in in AC couple circuits
anything that has capacitors cing signal
sometimes you have to set R sh on okay
but that's not the case here so we're
going to leave that alone so at this
point I'm going s
simulate and what you're going to see is
that we have our different waveforms and
they actually the probes get replaced
with these little icons showing you the
color of the waveform in the graph and
then you have the current now no said I
didn't explicitly ask for current when I
was setting this up by default the
simulator has been set up in Fusion
Electronics so I give you the current
waveforms of any independent sources so
in our case we have one independent
voltage source it's showing you how the
current
changes as the circuit develops if
you're not interested in the current
waveform which many times you're not you
can just turn it off if you are then
obviously you already have it without
having to specify it or adding any type
of current probes into the simulation
okay so if you look here we have these
two waveforms right now they're
overlapping we can go ahead and separate
one from the other that way they can be
scaled better and what you can see is
here's our waveform our sinos waveform
that we're inputting and what you can
see is that the waveform ends up cutting
the top which is what we expect right on
the positive cycle the LED turns on and
it clamps that voltage to the LED
forward voltage so it's behaving as we
expect and then once it goes negative
that led is no longer clamping the CC
down have the full negative okay so this
is behaving as expected so we know that
the simulation can be trusted now one
thing that sometimes users will do with
simulation is that they'll just build up
a circuit and simulate with no
expectation of what the result should be
and that is kind of a dangerous road to
go down the idea of simulations is to
help you verify the operation of your
Circ so if you have no idea what your
circuit is supposed to do how can you
trust that the results shown are
accurate
in this case I had an expectation of
what the circle would do once that led
turns on V out clamps to whatever the
LED full voltage is that's what I'm
expecting and now when I run the
simulation that's what I see okay you
can see it's in Phase with the w which
is also an expected Behavior now because
of the differences in voltages you
notice that the W from looks a little
bit difference and that's just because
of the voltage scaling here if I would
put them back together which I believe I
can do you'll see that now the scaling
is the same and you can see how the W
operates and if you notice whichever one
I'm over that's the symbol that we
highlight so it's really easy to figure
out what signal where the signal is in
the circuit and it can be very helpful
there's a few settings over here that
you can see set up a
logarithmic for the the x-axis that can
be useful the other thing that we have
is dark mode so for those of you maybe
that feel more comfortable with easier
on your eyes you can just switch it to
dark mode okay so this
is want to show obviously it's a very
basic simulation but we wanted to show
you how you can map models and set up
your own simulations so I'm going to go
ahead and close the simulation and now
we're back here in Fusion so now let's
go ahead and show you what this is
capable of some more interesting
simulations so I'm going to go back to
my panel over here I'm going to pick
this two transistor oscillator
okay expected downloading eror message
okay that's interesting I was not
expecting that let me go ahead and save
this as a completed
example okay all right let me try to
open this one
again okay that's fine
refresh I don't know what happened here
I think is that electronic docum that CL
think going on no cuz originally say did
here and then I did a save
as it looks like it didn't like that I
did that it's okay getting it open
now
crash that's never happened to me it's
okay that's enjoy being
live didn't happen to me earlier when I
went through this of course live it's a
good thing I have a strong computer here
at at home so this will be pretty
fast
uh no I'm not going to cover that let's
over here let's open this
one there we go all right so this is a
more interesting circuit again you need
to have some expectation of what the
circuit is going to do so this circuit
is an oscillator so it's going to change
between two states okay and the way you
you can understand this one before we
even run the simulation so that we all
have the same expectation okay right now
when the circuit gets power okay this
transistor is going to turn on and
current is going to flow through here
it's going to flow through this resistor
and and it's also going to turn this
transistor on okay so as this when this
transistor turns on currents going to
start to flow but you notice we have
this capacitor right here okay now a
capacitor tries to resist a change in
voltage so initially both of these nodes
are at the same voltage okay that
is Clos here closer here what end up
happening is this current is larger than
this one so this voltage starts to rise
rise rise rise and because the capacitor
resists that change what's going to
eventually happen is that this node is
going to creep up also if it creeps up
enough it's going to turn this
transistor off when this transistor
turns off all the current that was going
through it now goes through this
transistor and this one gets driven even
harder okay so what ends up happening is
because now this one is off there's no
current flowing through here the voltage
starts to drop okay once it drops enough
for this transistor to turn on it will
again turn on robbing current from this
one so now the voltage isn't as high and
then the whole cycle will again repeat
okay Vol again start to rise eventually
Cuts this transistor off volt starts to
drop here once it drops low enough for
the transistor to turn back back on then
it'll turn back on and drop this one
again so they're they're basically
flipping and flopping between each other
that's what we should expect to see okay
so let's go ahead and this simulation
already been set up this one is also
transient simulations okay it's ready to
go I hit simulate there was an issue
running this one okay again probably
broken from before I a to find the
definition of the model okay so let's go
ahead and add model to it Junction
transistor map load the model okay this
one is going to be over
here and these files are examples that
came with you I just move them over into
here later there we go see okay you see
here you see how this model has some
addition
information so in this npn model all of
these attributes have been specified and
that comes from the manufacturer I'm
going to say okay whoa from eev
blog that's
weird I contain
enough yeah it's okay say okay I
do seem something is is broken in
here okay let's do
this this is how I did it
before just going to go ahead and do it
again go over
here
demos new electronics
design I'm going to go ahead and
reference a schematic
document select from the
computer spice
analog I'm basically linking an existing
schematic into this Electronics design
what this will do is it'll pull it up
into Fusion
360 and then it will basically live in
Fusion 360 so I'm going to go over here
to oscillator pick this hit
open okay I'm pretty
done
can go do some exercise or something or
eat some
food all right so that's a wrap on
learning uh freead and fusion
[Music]
all right whatever I'm
out